<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>An Amicable Controversy with a Jewish Rabbi, on The Messiah's Coming</title>
      <author><name reg="Park, J. R.">J. R. Park, M.D.</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>November 3, 2010</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">34201</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2010-11-03">November 3, 2010</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Jeff G., David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
            (This book was produced from scanned images of public domain
            material from the Google Print project.)
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">An</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Amicable Controversy</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">With</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">A Jewish Rabbi,</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">On</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">The Messiah's Coming:</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">Unfolding</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">New Views on Prophecy</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">And The</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Nature of the Millenium:</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">With an Entirely New</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Exposition of Zechariah,</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">On The</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Messiah's Kingdom</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">By J. R. Park, M.D. &amp;c.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">London:</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Smith, Elder, And Co. 65, Cornhill</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">1832</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='iii'/><anchor id='Pgiii'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Preface.</head>

<p>
What! another Commentary on Zechariah!
the reader is ready to exclaim. Have we
not a Lowth and a Blayney? What can learning,
talent, or research effect, that has not
been effected already? In a word, I answer&mdash;nothing.
But, on the other hand, I ask,
what have they effected? With the exception
of particular passages, on which light
has been thrown, the general scope of the
prophecy remains as obscure as ever. Sufficient
proof of this appears in the want of
consistency in the plan of interpretation,
which in one verse looks to future events,
and in another to events long past, for explanation;
in one part supposes the prophet
<pb n='iv'/><anchor id='Pgiv'/>
to offer a connected series of consecutive predictions;
in the next supposes him to be carried
away by a transport into a digression
bordering upon incoherency; varying, moreover,
continually in the principle of exposition,
which is literal or figurative, political or
spiritual by turns. Surely this is not legitimate
exposition, but rather bespeaks some
latent error, some radical defect in the plan,
or principle of investigation.
</p>

<p>
To point out that defect, which the writer
fancies he has discovered, is the object of the
present attempt; whether he be right or
wrong, the reader must decide. The traveller
who mistakes his road, only goes the farther
astray the more he prolongs his journey. So
the commentator on prophecy, who labours
to force the text to a sense which it was not
intended to bear, the more learning and ingenuity
he employs, the more he becomes involved
in intricacy and obscurity.
</p>

<p>
In expounding the prophecies relating to
the Jews, commentators have had chiefly in
<pb n='v'/><anchor id='Pgv'/>
view their temporal and political state; whereas
the writer conceives, that their moral and
religious, that is, their spiritual condition, is
really the main purport of those which relate
to the restoration of Israel. Let any one
read the description of the New Jerusalem
in the 21st chapter of Revelations, and ask
himself, if this can possibly apply to a literal
city, or political state. It evidently cannot;
and yet it must apply to some state of the
Jews on earth; for the Messiah's kingdom is
always described as a kingdom on earth; and,
therefore, if the description does not apply to
their temporal, it must to their spiritual condition.
</p>

<p>
The Messiah's kingdom is allowed to be
the chief subject of these prophecies; but if
Christ be the Messiah, his kingdom is a spiritual
one, and what relates to it must be spiritually
understood. We marvel at the blindness
which prevents the Jews from perceiving
in prophecy the numerous intimations of a
spiritual Messiah, all of which appear to us
<pb n='vi'/><anchor id='Pgvi'/>
to have been distinctly fulfilled in the person
of Christ; and yet that very blindness to
their spirituality is what prevents ourselves
from understanding other prophecies relating
to the same subject. Let this be steadily
and uniformly kept in view, and most of the
difficulties will vanish; and an interpretation
will unfold itself, not only historically minute,
and chronologically accurate, but which is,
moreover, as far as scriptural language admits,
literal; for in what relates to spiritual
affairs, the spiritual is the most literal interpretation.
This, then, is the principle of the
following exposition, and when it has been
found necessary to correct the translation, it
was not for the purpose of finding out more
recondite meanings, but to bring back the
words of the text to their ordinary and literal
signification.
</p>

<p>
With regard to the controversial form under
which the treatise appears, a word of explanation
may be requisite. The writer having
framed his views of prophecy on principles
<pb n='vii'/><anchor id='Pgvii'/>
most at variance with those of the Jews,
and being only a self-taught Hebraist, was
anxious to know how far his exposition might
be controverted by an acknowledged Hebrew
scholar of the Jewish persuasion. Upon inquiry
he was referred to his present opponent,
as the fittest person for that purpose;
and he had the satisfaction to find, that however
they might differ in the plan of interpretation,
yet his opponent could rarely challenge
the accuracy or fidelity of his translation;
which he acknowledged to be more in
accordance with the Christian principle of
exposition, than any he had previously met
with.
</p>

<p>
At the same time he declared the views it
unfolded, to contain nothing likely to have
any weight with a Jew; and readily pledged
himself to answer those views, should the
writer ever be disposed to publish them.
The views and the answer are now before the
reader.
</p>

<p>
[Transcriber's Note: Single-word Hebrew quotations in the original book are often
rendered here in the form <q>A (or B)</q>, with the same word rendered in <q>A</q> and
in <q>B</q>, but with the letters stored in opposite orders. This is to allow the same
e-book to render properly in both HTML and PDF. The full-paragraph quotations should
appear correct in all formats.]
</p>

</div>

<pb n='001'/><anchor id='Pg001'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Introduction.</head>

<quote rend='display'>
<q>The testimony of Jesus in the spirit of prophecy.</q>
</quote>

<p>
Few, perhaps, of those who read the Scriptures
are fully aware of the extent to which
the language of them abounds in metaphor;
yet is this knowledge indispensable to the
right understanding of both the Old and
the New Testament, and especially the prophetic
parts of these books.
</p>

<p>
Prophecy, though not the largest, is beyond
question the most important part of
Scripture, affording the only irrefragable
proofs of God's moral government of the
world, and of Christ's being the promised
<pb n='002'/><anchor id='Pg002'/>
Messiah. These proofs depend upon no
human testimony, but carry their evidence in
themselves, not resting on man's credibility.
Deposited in the hands of those, whose blindness
understands them not, and whose prejudice
would gladly pervert their meaning,
they have been handed down to us, who are
blinded by similar prejudices, and in expounding
these prophecies are only a shade
more enlightened than the Jews.
</p>

<p>
This rich mine of miraculous evidence,
still remains, almost wholly unexplored, although
it is to this testimony especially,
that Christ himself appealed. <hi rend='italic'>Search the
Scriptures</hi>, said he, <hi rend='italic'>for in them ye think ye
have eternal life, and they are they which testify
of me</hi>. This testimony still remains to Christians
of the present day, for the most part,
a sealed book; for beyond a partially successful
attempt, to point out in it, the prediction
of a few leading events, fulfilled near two
thousand years ago, and therefore now no
longer miraculous evidence to us, but resting
on the authenticity of historical records, all
the rest is veiled from their sight.
</p>

<p>
The subsequent history of the progress of
<pb n='003'/><anchor id='Pg003'/>
our religion, continued in these prophecies,
in one uninterrupted series of predictions up
to the present day; detailing the triumphant
progress of the Gospel&mdash;the downfall of Judaism&mdash;the
subversion of Paganism&mdash;the
corruption of Christianity by the Gentiles&mdash;the
long age of darkness consequent thereto&mdash;the
rise and successful career of Mahommedism,
which has supplanted nominal Christianity
over half the globe&mdash;the exact boundary
line, affixing a limit to the dominion of
each of these grand apostacies&mdash;their co-existence
and simultaneous downfall&mdash;and the
revival of true Christianity&mdash;with other
events, clearly foretold, and now fulfilling
before our eyes, have all escaped the detection
of the most learned commentators whether
Jewish or Christian.
</p>

<p>
The inability to explain these prophecies
thus tacitly acknowledged, which has accompanied
their transmission to our hands, is in
some degree a pledge that they have been faithfully
handed down to us; for who would be at
the pains to interpolate what none could pretend
to explain or apply? At the same time,
the cause of their remaining unexplained, and
<pb n='004'/><anchor id='Pg004'/>
of their appearing inapplicable to passing
events, becomes a highly interesting object
of inquiry; and will be chiefly found to arise
from the circumstance alleged at the outset,
namely, the misinterpretation of the figurative
language of Scripture and Prophecy.
</p>

<p>
The leading subject of prophecy is the
Messiah's kingdom; a kingdom which the
Jews expected to be a temporal one, and
in this expectation, rejected Christ as a spiritual
prince. Whence arose their error?&mdash;From
their taking in a literal sense the language,
in which the prophets had described
that kingdom. The Apostles, and first disciples
of our Lord were under a similar illusion;
and had Christ at once undeceived
them, and banished from their minds all
hope of temporal dominion, it is probable
they would to a man have deserted him.
In fact, they did so desert him at his crucifixion;
nor did they fully perceive their
error, till after his resurrection, when they
received the gift of the Spirit on the day
of Pentecost, and their eyes were at length
fully opened to the spiritual nature of his
reign.
</p>

<pb n='005'/><anchor id='Pg005'/>

<p>
The Jews still remain under this illusion,
continuing still to look for a temporal prince,
and the literal fulfilment of prophecy. Thousands
also of Christians, who look for the
second coming of Christ, expect his personal
advent; that is, that he will come in person
to reign with the saints on earth for a thousand
years. And the title of saints, whether
assumed by, or bestowed upon the millenarians,
seems to be fondly cherished by them,
in anticipation of the share they expect in
the glories of that reign now approaching, or,
as they suppose, just at hand.
</p>

<p>
That there be any among these, who would,
like the first disciples, desert their Lord, if
robbed of this pleasing expectation, it were
perhaps invidious to suppose. Whether, like
the Jews, they are led into this hope of an
earthly kingdom, by their misconception of
the prophecies that relate to this period, it
were premature as yet to enquire. But certain
it is, that they are for the most part zealous
advocates for the literal sense of prophecy;
and equally adverse with the Jews,
to what may be termed the spiritual exposition.
</p>

<pb n='006'/><anchor id='Pg006'/>

<p>
The term spiritual has, however, been so
much misunderstood, in regard to the interpretation
of prophecy, that it may be well to
explain here what is intended by it. No more
is meant by this term, than that the prophecies
relating to the Messiah's kingdom, which
the Christian must allow to be of a spiritual
nature, foretel events which regard the moral
and religious, and not the political state of the
world. In a word, that they foreshow the progress,
and final establishment of true christianity
on earth; this being the Messiah's
kingdom, or his spiritual reign. In this subject,
or the progress of our religion, we have
a history abounding in events more diversified
in their nature, and more interesting in their
consequences, because more influential on the
happiness of mankind, than any which political
history can furnish. Their chronology
and geography are in some points peculiar;
but, rightly understood, even these admit of
being marked with unerring precision, and
present some of the most striking proofs of
divine foreknowledge.
</p>

<p>
We have intimated that prophetic language
abounds in metaphor; but this remains to be
<pb n='007'/><anchor id='Pg007'/>
proved, as well as stated; and the nature of
these metaphors requires to be pointed out
and explained. This can only be done by
citations from the prophecies themselves,
which shall, however, be made with as much
brevity as the subject will admit of. The
passages shall all be taken from prophecies
relating to the Messiah's kingdom; and while
their purport is made manifest, it shall at the
same time be shewn that they are uniformly
employed in the same sense, when the Messiah's
kingdom is the subject treated of,
throughout the New as well as the Old Testament.
We proceed to show the metaphorical
nature of prophetic language.
</p>

<p>
When Isaiah (Ch. lxi.) uses such phrases as,
<hi rend='italic'>trees of righteousness</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>garments of praise</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>garments of salvation</hi>, it is manifest that he
cannot mean literal trees or literal garments;
the figurative and spiritual import expressed
by the epithet affixed to each, namely righteousness,
salvation and praise, is the only
one that can be given to them.
</p>

<p>
When the same prophet (Ch. lx.) foretelling
the glory of the Messiah's reign, by the
conversion of the Gentiles, says <hi rend='italic'>The abundance
<pb n='008'/><anchor id='Pg008'/>
of the sea shall be converted unto thee;
the forces of the Gentiles shall come unto thee</hi>,
it is evident that the sea does not mean the
literal sea, but figuratively the Gentile nations,
as afterwards expressed.
</p>

<p>
When he styles the Messiah's kingdom,
<hi rend='italic'>Zion, the city of the Lord, whose walls shall
be called salvation, and whose gates praise</hi>; a
spiritual and not a literal city must be intended.
When, changing the metaphor, he
calls the city <hi rend='italic'>a bride</hi> (Ch. lxii, 5,) or describes
it <hi rend='italic'>as a woman in labour, and bringing forth a
male child</hi>, (Ch. lxvi. 6. 8.) it is clear that
all these expressions must be metaphorical;
<hi rend='italic'>the mountain, the city, the bride and the mother</hi>,
being alike used to express the same object;
and that object, as the context declares, the
spiritual glory of the Messiah's reign; splendid
in righteousness, abundant in salvation.
</p>

<p>
Although the spiritual import of these expressions
appears self-evident; while the context
may satisfy the Christian that these chapters
foreshow the nature of the Messiah's kingdom,
metaphorically styled by the prophets, <hi rend='italic'>the
Zion of God, His holy mountain, the heavenly
Jerusalem, &amp;c.</hi>, terms which alone bespeak its
<pb n='009'/><anchor id='Pg009'/>
spirituality; yet have we moreover the direct
sanction and authority of the Apostles Paul
and John for thus understanding them.
</p>

<p>
St. Paul, when comparing the advantages
of the two covenants, and contrasting the
rigorous severity of the law, with the indulgent
mildness of the gospel, borrows these very
metaphors from the prophets, calling the former
Mount Sinai, and the latter Mount Zion.
(Heb. xii. 18.) <hi rend='italic'>For ye are not come</hi>, says he,
<hi rend='italic'>to the mountain that might be touched, and
that burned with fire, nor unto blackness and
darkness and tempest, &amp;c.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>But ye are come unto Mount Zion, and
unto the city of the living God, the heavenly
Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of
Angels.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>To the general assembly and church of the
first-born, which are written in heaven, &amp;c.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Here we see <hi rend='italic'>Mount Sinai</hi>, from which the
law was delivered, figuratively used to signify
the Old Covenant; and <hi rend='italic'>Mount Zion</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>the
Heavenly Jerusalem</hi> to signify the New Covenant,&mdash;called
also the <hi rend='italic'>general assembly and
church of the first-born</hi>; that is of the regenerate
through Christ.
</p>

<pb n='010'/><anchor id='Pg010'/>

<p>
In like manner St. John, when foreshowing
the final establishment of true Christianity,
uses the same metaphor of a city and a bride,
that had been previously used by Isaiah. (Rev.
xxi. 2.) <hi rend='italic'>And I, John, saw the holy city, new
Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven
prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband,
&amp;c.</hi>
</p>

<p>
But let it not be erroneously supposed that
the figurative character of prophetic language
consists merely in the use of these terms to
express the Messiah's kingdom; or that the
proof of its spirituality is confined to the employment,
however frequent, of such phrases
as <hi rend='italic'>trees of righteousness, waters of life, wells
of salvation</hi>, &amp;c.; the fact is, that every allusion
to that kingdom is couched in terms,
which admit only of spiritual interpretation:
and where any lengthened description occurs,
the language assumes the form of continued
allegory, in which the moral and religious state
of mankind is foreshewn in terms appropriate
only to the physical world. As in Ezekiel
xxxiv. 26.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I will make them, and the places
round about my hill a blessing; and I will
<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>
cause the shower to come down is his season;
there shall be showers of blessing.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the tree of the field shall yield her
fruit, and the earth shall yield her increase, and
they shall be safe in their land, and shall know
that I am the Lord.</hi>
</p>

<p>
When Jeremiah (xxxi. 12.) in similar language
foretels the abundance of blessings
promised in this kingdom, even the Rabbi
admits that the figurative and not the literal
sense is to be taken; and that spiritual, not
temporal blessings are here intended by the
prophet.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Therefore they shall come and sing in the
height of Zion, and shall flow together for the
goodness of the Lord, for wheat and for wine,
and for oil, and for the young of the flock, and
of the herd</hi>, &amp;c.
</p>

<p>
But the main point aimed at in the following
exposition; and what the writer wishes to be
its distinguishing characteristic is, that of
making scripture its own interpreter; for in
every passage that has been referred to, and
perhaps it may be said, in every one that can
be referred to, there will be found in the context
sufficient intimation of the purport of the
figurative expressions employed.
</p>

<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>

<p>
On this plan the boldest metaphors will be
found to admit of easy explanation; and passages
otherwise inexplicable will find their
solution, upon one consistent and uniform
principle of interpretation. A few examples
will afford illustration of the proposed plan of
exposition.
</p>

<p>
One of the boldest metaphors used by the
prophets in reference to the Messiah's kingdom
is, that which represents the establishment
of this new order of things, promised in
his reign, as <hi rend='italic'>a new heaven and a new earth</hi>;
in fact as a new creation: a mode of expression,
which has no doubt been often understood,
by those who are not sufficiently conversant
with the nature of prophetic language,
as literally foretelling a change in the physical
world, that we inhabit.
</p>

<p>
Nor is this error confined to the unlearned:
it appears to have been fallen into by one who
may perhaps be justly styled the most learned
commentator on prophecy of the present
age; and moreover the very writer who has
pointed out the true principle of exposition.
</p>

<p>
The intelligent and profound Dean of
Lichfield in his work on the Apocalypse, after
<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>
pointing out the figurative sense of such passages,
yet, strange to say, relinquishes this
sense where it seems the most appropriate,
and adopts the literal.
</p>

<p>
In allusion to the first establishment of the
Jewish Theocracy, we find in Isaiah (li. 16.)
the following figurative language.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>When I have put my words in thy mouth,
and covered thee with the palm of my hand, that
I may plant the heaven, and lay the foundation
of the earth.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Thus, selecting the Jews to be God's chosen
people, and putting his words in the mouth of
the prophet, are said to be <hi rend='italic'>planting the heavens</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>laying the foundation of the earth</hi>. And
in conformity with this style, when the old
Covenant was to be dissolved, and the new
one to be established, <hi rend='italic'>new heavens</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>a new
earth</hi> are said to be created. (Isa. lxv. 17.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>For behold I create new heavens and a new
earth, and the former shall not be remembered
nor come into mind.</hi>
</p>

<p>
When St. John, in the Rev. vi. 12. foretels the
corruption of Christianity, in a prophecy which
appears distinctly applicable to the events
that occurred at the beginning of the fourth
<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>
century; he borrows the same metaphors,
and describes the loss or corruption of true
religion as the departure of the heavens, and
the darkening of the heavenly luminaries.
(Rev. vi. 12.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I beheld when he had opened the sixth
seal, and lo there was a great earthquake; and
the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and
the moon became as blood;</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth;
even as a fig-tree casteth her untimely figs,
when she is shaken of a mighty wind.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the heaven departed as a scroll when it
is rolled together, &amp;c.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The historical view of this period, taken
by Dr. Woodhouse, exactly accords with the
figurative sense of the prophecy&mdash;yet, to the
manifest injury of consistent interpretation,
it is here that he relinquishes the figurative,
and adopts the literal sense, supposing the
day of judgment to be here foretold.
</p>

<p>
While thus compelled to dissent from some
particular views of this writer, I cannot pass
by this opportunity of expressing the very
high estimation in which I otherwise hold his
most valuable publication. (Woodhouse on
the Apocalypse.)
</p>

<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>

<p>
Other commentators on prophecy, who
have for the most part adopted the political
in preference to the spiritual view, regard <hi rend='italic'>the
heavens</hi>, as symbolizing the civil government
or ruling powers in a state; and it is true
that these expressions have not been always
confined in prophecy to the prediction of spiritual
events; but have been also used in
foretelling the judgments of God upon political
states and kingdoms.
</p>

<p>
But when the Messiah's kingdom is the acknowledged
subject, to look to political events
for its fulfilment, is surely to run into the
error of the Jews, and to disregard the intimation
expressly given by him; who declared
that <hi rend='italic'>his kingdom was within us</hi>; or as the
prophets had previously foreshewn&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>behold,
I will put my law in their inward parts; and
write it in their hearts</hi>.
</p>

<p>
One example more shall suffice, for shewing
the superiority of the spiritual view, in
affording the solution of passages, which
upon any other must appear utterly inexplicable.
It has been stated that Zion is also
represented as a woman, and a mother; of
which the most remarkable instance occurs
<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>
in the following extraordinary passage in
Isaiah lxvi. 7, 8.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Before she travailed she brought forth; before
her pains came she was delivered of a man-child.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Who hath heard such a thing? Who hath
seen such things? Shall the earth be made to
bring forth in one day? or shall a nation be
born at once? for as soon as Zion travailed she
brought forth her children.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The Christian may perhaps suppose, as
some have done, that Christ is the man-child
here intended; but that cannot be. For Zion
is the mother, and a mountain can never be
literally understood to bring forth a man;
the mountain is a figurative mother, and the
child must be a figurative child.
</p>

<p>
What does the mother figuratively signify?
is then the question most likely to lead
us to the nature of the child. We have already
seen that this term is constantly applied
to Israel, and especially with reference
to their spiritual state of regeneration through
Christianity. Such we may presume, then, is
the meaning of Zion here; and that the regeneration
<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>
of the Jews through Christianity is
the birth and parturition here spoken of.
</p>

<p>
Upon this view Judaism, or the Jewish
Church will be the mother, and the Christian
Church or Christianity her child&mdash;the
man-child, who was ordained to rule all nations.
Ps. ii.
</p>

<p>
The next question is, how the birth can be
said to have preceded the labour-pains.
</p>

<p>
Mr. Lowth, to whom more than any other I
feel indebted for much valuable assistance in
explaining the Old Testament prophecies,
supposes the labour-pains to be <q>the destruction
of the Jewish Polity, making way
for the growth of Christianity.</q> And this
seems a plausible explanation, as these troubles
of the Jewish Church followed the birth
or promulgation of Christianity forty years.
</p>

<p>
But the solution is only plausible; for the
growth is not the birth; or if it be taken as
the birth, then it no longer precedes but follows
the labour-pains, for whatever effect the
destruction of Judaism had in promoting
Christianity, this effect was subsequent and
not prior to that event; and thus the solution
fails in the main point.
</p>

<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>

<p>
Moreover, upon the spiritual plan of exposition,
it may justly be objected, that these
troubles of the Jewish Church were rather
of a political than a spiritual character; and
certainly in no way essential to the birth
of Christianity, and cannot therefore be considered
as the labour-pains, or even as the
after-pains of that birth.
</p>

<p>
This objection being valid, let a more
spiritual view be taken, and the objection will
vanish. Let the worldly feelings which prevented
the Jews from receiving Christ as their
Messiah, and the inward struggle required to
overcome these, symbolise the pains of labour,
and the connexion will be evident. For this
very struggle and victory over worldly feelings
constitute the regeneration through Christ;
and this therefore is essential to the birth of
Christianity, <q>the new birth unto righteousness.</q>
</p>

<p>
But with the first Christians this struggle
could not precede the birth, for they received
Christ, before they were aware of the spiritual
nature of his mission; the Apostles did not
look for a spiritual Messiah until after the
day of Pentecost, and therefore the birth preceded
<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>
the pains with them; but once aware of
the sacrifice required, they cheerfully submitted
to every species of persecution, and
triumphed over all worldly feelings. And in
every individual who receives Christianity,
this struggle with worldly feelings must in
some measure continue during their whole
lives.
</p>

<p>
With the Jews, the prevalence of these
worldly feelings, and the hope of a temporal
Messiah, still prevent their receiving
Christianity, or obstruct their regeneration.
And when the evidence of its truth
shall be forced upon them, it is probable
that this conviction will precede rather than
follow the entire conquest over worldly feelings;
so difficult is it to change our habits
and feelings at once. And in this we may
perceive the sense of the remaining verse,
cited above; <hi rend='italic'>Can the earth be made to bring
forth at once? Can a nation be born in a day?
For as soon as Zion travailed she brought forth
her children.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The <hi rend='italic'>earth</hi> and the <hi rend='italic'>nation</hi> shew that a whole
people, or race of men, are here spoken of;
and the <hi rend='italic'>man-child</hi> of the former verse, we here
<pb n='020'/><anchor id='Pg020'/>
find changed into <hi rend='italic'>children</hi>, in the plural number.
Such appears to be the solution of the
difficulty, on the spiritual plan of exposition.
</p>

<p>
If an equally satisfactory solution can be
offered by reference to political events, this
will no doubt be the best defence of that
mode of exposition that can be offered. How,
then, is the fact? The fact is, that such commentaries
are obliged to consider nine-tenths
of these prophecies still unaccomplished, although
a period of two thousand five hundred
years has elapsed since they were uttered;
and most of this interval is thus left, to
Christians as well as Jews, a perfect blank in
this prophetic history of the progress of the
Messiah's kingdom; without any proof,
during this time, at least as drawn from these
prophecies of the Old Testament, of God's
foreknowledge of events, of his providence in
the government of the world, or of his interposition
in the disposal of human affairs.
Some eight or ten verses, out of six chapters,
are all that appear upon this plan to admit of
explanation; whereas, by applying the prophecy
to the progress of Christianity, as
<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>
Christ's spiritual kingdom, and looking to
spiritual instead of political events, all the
leading occurrences in the history of our religion,
from its first promulgation to the present
day, already fulfilled, or now in the progress
of fulfilment, will be found to be clearly
foreshewn in one uninterrupted series of
predictions, comprising every verse and every
line in these chapters, except a few verses
which are still veiled in futurity. Admitting
the spiritual interpretation, being in fact
equivalent to admitting that Christ is the
Messiah, is the main point at issue between
the Rabbi and the Author; but as many
Christians still reject the figurative and spiritual
exposition, it is hoped that to them also
the foregoing remarks may be not altogether
useless; nor an unsuitable introduction to the
following new plan of expounding Zechariah's
prophetic view of the progress of the Messiah's
kingdom.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Zechariah
On The
Messiah's Kingdom.
Interpretation: Chapter IX.</head>

<p>
The subject of these chapters appears to
be that, which, from its constant repetition
by all the Prophets from the earliest to the
latest, was evidently esteemed the most important
to the interests of mankind; namely,
the coming of the Messiah.
</p>

<p>
This great event, being promised as a
blessing to the descendants of Abraham,
and particularly to the house of Judah, it
was natural that the Jews should expect to
obtain by it peculiar advantages; and accordingly,
whatever may be their views at
<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>
this time, we learn from the writings of St.
Paul, that their general expectation then was,
that to their nation would the benefits of it be
confined. The nature of these benefits was
moreover expected to consist, chiefly, in the
political supremacy to be conferred upon them
by a great temporal prince, who should establish
their dominion over all the earth.
</p>

<p>
Such were the expectations of the Jews;
whereas the Christians who equally believe
the prophecies which contain these promises,
have been taught to interpret them in a very
different manner. They conceive that these
benefits will extend to all mankind; and understand
them as having no reference to political
power or temporal affairs, but as affording
the means of obtaining advantages of a
far higher and more permanent nature; even
the blessings of eternal life, and eternal
happiness. Not that these blessings were
by the Messiah's coming to be directly and
unconditionally conferred upon mankind; but
that the means of obtaining them would
thereby be afforded to all such as were disposed
to seek after them. These means they
conceive to be accomplished through the
<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>
establishment of a kingdom on earth; a
kingdom, however, not of a temporal, but
of a spiritual nature; one which consists in
the reign of true religion in the heart of man,
a real Theocracy; by which man is enabled
to overcome the world, that is, to rule and direct
his passions and worldly propensities,
and by making his future existence a paramount
consideration, to render him meet to
enjoy it. Such, according to the Christian's
view, is the victory to be gained; such the
kingdom to be established by the Messiah;
and hence the apparent contradiction, that
while battles and conflicts are spoken of, it
is yet declared to be a peaceful kingdom.
</p>

<p>
But conceiving the prophecies which announce
the coming of the Messiah to have
been accomplished in the person of Christ,
the Christian supposes this kingdom to be
already established, and that Christ does actually
reign in the heart of every true believer.
That the numbers of such are comparatively
small, and by no means to be estimated
by the number of those who bear the
name of Christian, is a lamentable truth;
but it is a truth, which he was fully prepared
<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>
to look for by the same unerring word of prophecy;
which clearly announced, that a long
period of darkness and apostacy would intervene
between the appearance of the Messiah
on earth, and the universal establishment of
his kingdom.
</p>

<p>
It is true that the Christian finds the clearest
annunciation of this long period of antichristian
darkness, in books which are of no
authority in the estimation of the Jew, in
those of the New Testament, to wit; but if
it can be shewn, as we conceive it can, that
the same events are also clearly foretold by
the Prophets of the Old Testament, the
subject will then prefer an equal claim to
the attention of both; to that of the Jew, as
calling upon him, impartially to consider the
evidence, which seems to prove that his Messiah
has already appeared on earth; and to
that of the Christian, as calling upon him
carefully to examine how far the religion he
professes may, both in doctrine and practice,
still be tinctured with the corruptions of antichristianity.
</p>

<p>
This, then, is the point at issue; whether or
not, we have in these six chapters of Zechariah,
<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>
one of those Divine revelations, which
displays a prophetic view of the coming of the
Messiah; of his being rejected by most of his
own nation, but received by the Gentiles; of
the consequent abolition of Paganism, (then,
except with the Jews, the universal religion
of the world), and the substitution of Christianity
in its stead; but which at the same
time foretels the corruption of this religion
by us the Gentiles; and the long reign of
antichristian darkness which has since prevailed
in the room of it; with all the most
notable events attending these extraordinary
revolutions in the human mind; events still
fulfilling before our eyes, and open to the
observation of all who think the subject worthy
of their attention. Whether all this be clearly
intimated in the chapters before us, and can
be made out without violating grammatical
construction in the translation of the Hebrew,
or legitimate consistency in the interpretation
of prophetic language, is the question we propose
to consider. Frequent perusal and careful
examination have satisfied the mind of the
writer, that the subject of them is no other
than an epitome of the prophetic history
<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>
which was afterwards amplified in the Revelations
of St. John; where we find, as occurs
in other instances in which the predictions
are repeated, that the events are unfolded
with greater precision and minuteness as the
period of their accomplishment draws nigh.
</p>

<p>
That no such subject distinctly appears,
through the medium of the authorised translation
contained in our Bibles, is most certain;
nor was it to be looked for, that any passages,
which admitted of different modes of construction,
should be rendered in a way least
acceptable to the expositor, in a translation
which is almost wholly Jewish, being founded
on the Masoretic punctuation. On the contrary,
it appears, in not a few instances, that
the usual and literal sense has been rejected
for one more remote, but more consonant
to the views and prejudices, of those who
framed the punctuation. That this statement
may not rest on the questionable ground
of assertion or opinion, the reader will find,
in the notes subjoined, a full statement of the
reasons for all the changes proposed; and
the Hebrew scholar will thus have full opportunity
to challenge their validity, if he find
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
occasion. It is the writer's wish that they
should be freely canvassed; truth is the only
object he has in view; and he asks no other
conditions on entering the arena, than that of
disclaiming the authority of the Masoretic
punctuation. His reasons for this will appear
sufficiently obvious. If, without the
aid of the points, we obtain a meaning that
is simple and satisfactory in many passages,
which by them are rendered obscure or unintelligible;&mdash;if
a connected and unbroken
explanation of each verse be attainable without
them, while only a few verses detached
from the context have been explained by the
ablest commentators through their aid; sufficient
reason will surely appear for rejecting
an authority which, instead of facilitating our
progress, only encumbers the subject with
unnecessary difficulties.
</p>

<p>
The reader need not, however, expect that
every difficulty will be removed by the proposed
alterations; or that even the amended
translations will afford such an exposition as
to admit of no possible objection. It were
absurd to suppose that the strength of the argument
can lie all on one side, where two are
<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>
engaged in the controversy. For the Jew is
in this case no man of straw, set up to be
knocked down at pleasure, but a true Jew, a
Hebrew of the Hebrews, an advocate as zealous
in the cause he defends, as his Christian
opponent. Each believes himself in the
right; each expects to obtain the victory;
and it is not improbable that the reader, who
sits as umpire in the contest, may, after all,
though unconscious of partiality, give judgment
according to the bias of his feelings,
whether he be Jew or Christian, rather than
according to the abstract merits of the question.
</p>

<p>
Regarding the subject of the prophecy, as
the coming of the Messiah, the introduction,
which is comprised in the first eight verses
of this chapter, appears to be the most appropriate
that can possibly be conceived. It
opens with a denunciation against worldly-mindedness,
and a declaration of God's purpose
to frustrate the schemes, and cut off
the hopes of ambition, pride, and avarice, in
the judgments pronounced against those
cities, which were then the most conspicuous
for their riches and power. This is immediately
<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>
followed, as if by way of contrast, by
a view of the spiritual nature of the Messiah's
kingdom, founded in meekness and humility,
and affording benefits of a very different kind,
namely, the taking away of sin, and the redemption
of mankind from a state of sin and
perdition; benefits which were not to be confined
to the Jews alone, but to extend to the
Gentiles also, and that on terms of equal participation
with the Jews.
</p>

<p>
The denunciations are contained in the
first six verses as follow: Zech. ix.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The heavy burden of the word of the Lord
against the land of Hadrach and Damascus</hi>; <hi rend='italic'>his
sending down</hi>, (that is, the Lord's) <hi rend='italic'>for the Lord's
is the eye of man</hi>, (the eye of the seer who receives
the vision,) <hi rend='italic'>and all the tribes of Israel</hi>
(whom it immediately concerns).
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Hamath also shall have a limit set to her;
Tyre and Sidon also, though she be very wise</hi>&mdash;(worldly-wise).
<hi rend='italic'>For she hath built herself Tyre, a
strong hold, and heaped up silver as the dust, and
fine gold as the mire of the streets. Behold the
Lord will cast her out, and smite her power in the
sea, and she shall be devoured with fire. Ashkalon
shall see it and fear, Gaza also shall see it and
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
be very sorrowful; and Ekron, for her hope shall
be dried up, and the king shall perish from Gaza,
and Ashkalon shall not be inhabited, and a stranger
shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride
of the Philistines.</hi>
</p>

<p>
These denunciations are chiefly directed
against the Philistines, the cities enumerated
being the most conspicuous of any they possessed,
and no doubt, the pride of their nation.
Here, then, appears sufficient reason
for the Jews to interpret the prophecy, as altogether
in their favour, denouncing judgments
upon their enemies. But yet it is possible
they may have viewed them too partially,
and may even have overlooked the express
objects of denunciation in the prophecy;
which denounces their avarice and ambition,
and declares that the <emph>pride</emph> rather than the
<emph>cities</emph> of the Philistines shall be cut off. As
for the cities themselves, heavy judgments
are pronounced against them all. One, it is
declared, shall not be inhabited; another,
Sidon, is threatened with an overthrow, which
it received not long after from Ochus, king of
Persia, in precisely the manner here foretold;
while Tyre, Gaza, and others, were
<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>
taken by Alexander the Great; but if we
keep to the letter of the prophecy, it is their
avarice, ambition, and pride, that are distinctly
marked as the objects of Divine displeasure;
and even the judgments pronounced
against them on this account, are immediately
coupled with the succeeding promise of mercy
and redemption, through the means of a
meek and humble Messiah, who should <hi rend='italic'>take
away sin and pollution, and speak peace to the
heathen</hi>.
</p>

<p>
But why, it may be asked, were these
offences condemned in the Philistines particularly?
Were not the Jews also addicted
to pride, avarice, and worldly ambition? No
doubt they were so; and the prophecy being
addressed to them, it appears that the admonition
was expressly intended for their use.
</p>

<p>
Pride was even less excusable in the Jews,
who could find no sanction for it in their religion;
while this was the very basis of
Pagan morality; the pedestal on which honour
was erected; that idol of self-estimation, the
highest of Pagan virtues. These vices were
therefore more appropriately denounced in
the Philistines, as peculiarly belonging to
<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>
them, though spreading, by contagion, to the
Jews; and if punishable in the former, how
could they be excusable in the latter?
</p>

<p>
The mind of the Christian reader will naturally
revert to the pride which revolted at
the idea of a meek and humble Messiah, and
caused the Jews to reject him. But that
cannot be the question here; for the Jews
are not here pointed out as the objects of
Divine displeasure; nor is any intimation
hitherto given of their offence; and that of its
punishment could not surely precede it. The
feeling might indeed be there, and a salutary
warning of its being displeasing in the sight
of Heaven, and of the fatal consequences
about to result from it, seems here intended;
but the penalty was not incurred till the overt
act was committed, and to foretell the punishment
before the offence itself was intimated,
would have been a prophetical solecism. As
we proceed, we shall find, in its proper place,
due notice taken both of the one and the
other.
</p>

<p>
In the next verse we find these denunciations,
coupled with promises of mercy and
redemption to the remaining Gentiles, verse 7,
<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>
<hi rend='italic'>But I will take away his blood from out of
his mouth; and his pollution from between his
teeth; and he that remaineth, even he shall be for
our God</hi>; that is, the remaining Gentiles
shall have their sins forgiven, their pollution
washed away, they shall be redeemed from
the darkness of Paganism, and reclaimed to
the worship of the true God;
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And he shall be as a chief in Judah, Ekron,
as well as the Jebusite</hi>; that is, he (the remaining
Gentile) shall attain thereby to a
full participation with the Jew, in all the spiritual
blessings promised in the Messiah's
kingdom.
</p>

<p>
The prophecy having now declared the admission
of the Gentiles, promises that the
Messiah's kingdom, thus established, shall
ever enjoy Divine protection and support.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I will encamp about mine house, against
the army, against him that passeth over, and
against him that returneth, and there shall no oppressor
pass over them any more, for now have I
seen with mine eyes.</hi>
</p>

<p>
In the following verse, the subject of the
prophecy is so distinctly announced as the
coming of the Messiah, that Jews as well as
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
Christians concur on this point, though they
have not perceived how the preceding verses
refer to this kingdom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Rejoice greatly, daughter of Zion; shout,
O daughter of Jerusalem; behold thy King shall
come unto thee, just and having salvation; lowly
and riding upon an ass, even a colt the foal of an
ass.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The manner of the Messiah's coming being
here so plainly foretold, and his character so
distinctly described, we wonder how the Jew
can deny that this was all fulfilled in the person
of Christ. The reason is simply this; he
disbelieves the facts. The books in which
they are recorded, are of no authority in his
estimation; he challenges their testimony on
grounds too numerous to be discussed here.
To answer his objections, every disagreement
between the writers of the New Testament
must first be reconciled; a task which appears
to him to have hitherto failed with all
who have attempted it. But this is not the
only objection he has to urge. He charges
the Christian with perverting the sense of
prophecy; and this verse furnishes him with
an instance. Thus, the Hebrew word rendered,
<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>
<q><hi rend='italic'>having salvation</hi>,</q> is really the past
participle of the verb <q>to save,</q> literally
<q><hi rend='italic'>being saved</hi>;</q> and that too followed by the
emphatical pronoun <hi rend='italic'>himself</hi>, <q>being saved
himself.</q> Surely this point might be safely
conceded by the Christian, who admits that
Christ <q>was the first fruits of them that
slept;</q> the first who rose from the dead, to
everlasting life; and that through him we
become partakers in that resurrection.
</p>

<p>
The peaceful nature of his kingdom, the
participation of the heathen in its blessings,
and the boundless extent of its dominion are
next declared:
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And he will cut off the chariot from Ephraim,
and the horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow
shall be cut off; and he shall speak peace to the
heathen; and his dominion shall be from the sea
even to the sea, and from the river to the ends of
the earth.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The Christian reader will find no difficulty
in the interpretation of the verse which
follows.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>As for thee, by the blood of thy covenant, I have
sent forth thy prisoners from the pit wherein is
no water.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>

<p>
The Messiah is spoken of throughout;
who then but the Messiah can be apostrophised
in the words, <q><hi rend='italic'>As for thee?</hi></q> Then
follows <q><hi rend='italic'>by the blood of thy covenant</hi>.</q> What
blood but the blood of Christ? What covenant,
but that sealed by his blood, can be
alluded to? <q><hi rend='italic'>I have sent thy prisoners forth.</hi></q>
What prisoners, but those who were in the
bondage of sin? <q><hi rend='italic'>from the pit wherein is no
water</hi>.</q> What pit, but the darkness of idolatry,
which had none of the waters of life?
Surely this is a most clear and distinct intimation
of the sacrifice of the Messiah, and
of the benefits thereby conferred upon mankind
in the redemption of the heathen world
from the darkness of idolatry; thus opening
the way to immortality, to the whole human
race.
</p>

<p>
But the Messiah here appears to be promised
to the Gentiles, having been previously
promised to the Jews; were then these promises
retracted? By no means. To the
Jews he was promised, and to them he came,
exclusively addressing himself to the house
of Israel. Nor was it till after the majority
of that nation had rejected and crucified him,
<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>
that the calling of the Gentiles took place.
The blessings he offered being refused by the
former, appears to have been the immediate
cause of their being given to the latter. Accordingly
this seems to be the purport of the
next verse, which intimates that there was
some reason why these blessings could not be
directly and unconditionally transferred to the
Gentiles.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Return ye to the strong hold, my prisoners,
wait thou unto the day I declare, that I will repay
thee double</hi>; that is, wait for the day when
these blessings will become yours, through
the Jews' refusal of them.
</p>

<p>
Nor yet was the Messiah rejected by all the
Jews; for the apostles were Jews; the disciples
were Jews; by Jews was the Gospel
preached and propagated; and to the Jews
belongs the honour of the first triumph of
true religion over Paganism, and what is
more, over the passions and worldly propensities
of man; and this triumphant progress of
the Gospel seems to be the victory intimated
in the verse which follows; wherein the
reason is at the same time assigned why
<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>
Christ did not address himself to the Gentiles.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>For I have bent Judah for me, filled the bow
Ephraim; and raised up thy sons, O Zion, against
thy sons, O Greece; and made thee as the sword
of a mighty man.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The triumphs of Judas Maccabeus, generally
supposed to be here foretold, cannot
be the victories alluded to; for Ephraim, or
the ten tribes, here declared as bearing a
part in them, had already gone into captivity,
and bore no share whatever in these subsequent
wars of Judah. The true meaning
appears to be that Judah was destined to have
the honour of first establishing the Messiah's
kingdom, as promised from the beginning.
</p>

<p>
How then could Ephraim, or the ten tribes, it
may be asked, bear a part in the triumphs of the
Gospel, having previously gone into captivity?
The prophecy does not distinctly say so; if
we keep to the letter, it is only said that
Ephraim as well as Judah was prepared
and marshalled for the spiritual conflict: the
triumph is declared to <emph>Zion</emph> over <emph>Greece</emph>; that
is, to true religion over Pagan idolatry; and
<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>
in this warfare, though not in the wars of
Judas Maccabeus, Ephraim did bear a part;
for it is not to the apostolic age alone that we
must look for the accomplishment of the great
scheme of Providence for man's redemption.
This was only one act in the great drama;
which began under the Old Covenant, and is
not yet finally completed under the New. In
the former, or the Old Covenant, all the tribes
of Israel bore their share, Ephraim as well as
Judah; and the warfare not being finally
concluded, who shall say but Ephraim may
again appear, and bear a further part in it?
</p>

<p>
Having declared the union of the Gentiles
with the Jews, and their joint participation
in the blessings of the Messiah's kingdom,
the prophecy goes on to promise the support
and protection of Heaven, in terms alike applicable
to both.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the Lord shall be seen over them, and his
arrow shall go forth as the lightning; and the
Lord God shall blow the trumpet, and shall go
forth with whirlwinds of the south. And the Lord
of hosts shall defend them, and they shall devour
and subdue with sling-stones; and they shall drink
as wine, and they shall be filled like bowls, like
<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>
the corners of the altar.</hi> (which were purposely
so constructed as to receive the blood of the
sacrifices).
</p>

<p>
That the whole of these expressions require
to be taken figuratively and spiritually, no
one conversant with scriptural and prophetic
language can surely deny; or for a moment
suppose that literal drunkenness and bloodshed
are here intended.
</p>

<p>
Should any doubt remain that the Gentiles
are included in these promises as well as the
Jews, the next verse appears to decide the
question.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the Lord their God shall save them in
that day, as the flock of his people.</hi>
</p>

<p>
If the Jews be called his people, who but
the Gentiles can be meant by the other?
But this is followed by the direct declaration
that all distinction between them is on the
eve of its abolition.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>For the wall of separation is tottering over his
land.</hi>
</p>

<p>
A remarkable and striking expression, but
strangely perverted in our translation. Why
the Jews have laboured to give a different
turn to it, by seeking a more figurative and
<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>
recondite meaning, we need be at no loss to
conceive; nor why they apply these verses to
themselves alone. See note to the translation
of this verse.
</p>

<p>
But this view, which would limit the bounty
of Heaven to a particular race, besides being
at variance with the context, seems little calculated
to call forth the feelings of adoration
and praise with which this chapter concludes.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>For how great is his goodness, and how great
is his beauty. Corn shall make the young men
cheerful, and new wine the maids.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Corn, wine, &amp;c. in prophetic language ever
signify the food of spiritual knowledge, to be
henceforth freely bestowed on all, Gentiles
as well as Jews.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Notes To Chapter IX.
Hebrew Punctuation.</head>

<p>
A Summary of the arguments for and against the antiquity
and authority of the Vowel Points, is given at the beginning
of the Second Vol. of Horne's Introduction to the Study of the
Scriptures; from which the following considerations seem
most entitled to selection. That the earliest traces of the
points are to be found in the tenth century&mdash;that many of the
oldest manuscripts now extant are without them&mdash;that the
copies of the Jewish Scriptures now used in the Synagogue and
esteemed peculiarly sacred, are without them&mdash;that the Samaritan
letters which were the same as the Hebrew before the
captivity, are without them&mdash;and the Samaritan Pentateuch is
without them&mdash;that there are no traces of them to be found in
the shekels (coins) struck by the kings of Israel&mdash;that the
fathers, particularly Origen and Jerome, who treat of the Hebrew
pronunciation, make no mention of them&mdash;that all the
antient various readings of the Jews regard the letters only,
<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>
not one of them relates to the vowel points&mdash;to which may be
added, that there are five vowels in the Hebrew alphabet which
are quite sufficient for reading the language, though they may
not enable us to determine with precision the antient pronunciation.
<q>These considerations,</q> says Mr. Horne, <q>have determined
the majority of Hebrew scholars in the present day to
reject their authority.</q> Still we may admit their utility in
fixing the pronunciation, and perhaps also in facilitating the
construction; but the main objection to them is, that by
changing the vowels, they frequently alter the sense, as well as
the sound, and that in passages where a Jewish interpretation
is particularly open to suspicion. Thus in prophecies relating
to the Messiah, both their prejudices and their feelings unfit
them for becoming guides to a Christian expositor.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 1.       <lb/>
:       </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 1. :      
      </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The heavy burden of the word of the Lord in the land of
Hadrach, and Damascus shall be the rest thereof; when the
eyes of man, as of all the tribes of Israel, shall be towards
the Lord.</hi>
</p>

<p>
These are the words of the translation in our Bible; but the
sense of them I must acknowledge my inability to unravel.
Of what Damascus is to be the rest, or what period is intimated
by the adverb of time <emph>when</emph>, I am at a loss to discover.
The separation of Hadrach and Damascus by the insertion of
a comma between them, evidently owes its origin to the supposed
necessity for rendering the word  (or ) <emph>the rest
thereof</emph>. But if deriving it from  (or ) or  (or ) does not afford
<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>
any intelligible sense, we are naturally led to seek another derivation;
and we find one in the verb  (or )
<hi rend='italic'>to descend</hi> or <hi rend='italic'>send
down</hi>, which without violating grammatical construction affords
a meaning not only intelligible, but in perfect unison with the
context. The Hemantiv  prefixed, gives the <hi rend='italic'>thing sent down</hi>,
while the suffix  <hi rend='italic'>his</hi>,
evidently refers to <hi rend='italic'>the Lord</hi> who sends
the vision or denunciation. The English construction, of
course, requires it should be rendered <hi rend='italic'>his sending down</hi>, that
is, the Lord's denunciation, <hi rend='italic'>against</hi> Hadrach and Damascus,
as well as the other cities which are mentioned afterwards;
for  here rendered <hi rend='italic'>in</hi>, may with more propriety be rendered
<hi rend='italic'>against</hi> or <hi rend='italic'>upon</hi>.
The verb  (or ) <hi rend='italic'>to send down</hi>, occurs in
Joel iii. 11 and elsewhere: but the writer freely acknowledges
that he has no authority for the participial noun with the Hemantiv
 prefixed to signify the thing sent down, or the act of
sending down, as the sense seems to require here. He therefore
rests this construction solely on the ground of its being grammatically
admissible, consonant to analogy, and in accordance
with the context, as affording a satisfactory meaning. Let
those who are not satisfied with such reasons furnish a better
solution of the difficulty. In the next place, there is no necessity
for rendering  (or ) <hi rend='italic'>when</hi>,
which more frequently signifies <hi rend='italic'>for</hi>;
and when so rendered, it will be found to connect together the
latter and the former part of the verse. For this, we only require
to render the dative , as it frequently is rendered in
Hebrew, as well as Greek and Latin, to denote <emph>possession</emph>; and
the verse will run thus. <hi rend='italic'>For the Lord's is</hi>, or to the Lord belongs,
<hi rend='italic'>the eye of man</hi>; to wit, the eye of the Seer, who receives
the vision, <hi rend='italic'>and all the tribes of Israel</hi>, whom the vision chiefly
<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>
concerns. Making the tribes a genitive case, by inserting <hi rend='italic'>of</hi>
before them, is wholly uncalled for by the text.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 2.        <lb/>
       : </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 2. :        </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And Hamath also shall border thereby, Tyrus and Sidon
though it be very wise.</hi>
</p>

<p>
 (or ) <hi rend='italic'>to set bounds to</hi>, in the Hiphil, occurs in Exod.
xix. 12 &amp; 23.&mdash;It here appears to be the Huphal or passive of
Hiphil&mdash;signifying <hi rend='italic'>to be
bounded</hi>, or <hi rend='italic'>to be set bounds to</hi>.
It is only necessary to remark, that leaving aside the punctuation,
the form of the future tense will be identical in both
these voices. The sense as it stands is scarcely intelligible.
What is meant by <hi rend='italic'>border thereby</hi>, it is not easy to conceive;
but by discarding the points we readily obtain a meaning
that is perfectly intelligible.  (or ) may then be rendered in
the passive voice, instead of the active, and will signify <hi rend='italic'>to be
limited</hi>, or <hi rend='italic'>have bounds set to</hi>;
and  (or ) <hi rend='italic'>on</hi> or <hi rend='italic'>to her</hi>, which
follows, accords with, and seems to demand its being so rendered.
<hi rend='italic'>And Hamath also shall have bounds set to her</hi>; that
is, her growing greatness shall be checked.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Tyre, and also Sidon though she
be very wise</hi>,  (or ), <hi rend='italic'>wise</hi>,
no doubt, means here, <hi rend='italic'>worldly wise</hi>, or very subtle.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 5.       <lb/>
       :   </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 5. :         </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ashkalon shall see and fear, Gaza also, and she shall be
very sorrowful, and Ekron for her expectation shall be
ashamed.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>

<p>
 (or ) may be derived either from
 (or ) <hi rend='italic'>to be ashamed</hi>, or
from  (or ) <hi rend='italic'>to dry up</hi>, and whither as a plant for want of
moisture. The latter seems preferable here, but it is not very
material to the sense.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 6. :     </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 6. :     </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>A bastard shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the
pride of the Philistines.</hi>
</p>

<p>
 (or ) may be rendered a <hi rend='italic'>stranger</hi>,
as well as a <hi rend='italic'>bastard</hi>,
 in the Septuagint, which renders the sense more
obvious.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.</hi> These
denunciations appear chiefly directed against the Philistines, in
whom pride, avarice, and ambition, are specified as the great
offences. The delivery of Ashdod into the hands of a stranger
is the judgment pronounced against them in this verse, as the
last means of their humiliation. But here the tone of the
prophecy changes, and instead of further punishments, we find
repeated promises of blessings and mercy; <hi rend='italic'>he that is left
shall be for our God, and as a Governor in Judah</hi>,&mdash;and in
the verse following&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>He</hi> (the Messiah being manifestly meant
here) <hi rend='italic'>shall speak peace to the Heathen</hi>.&mdash;Whence then this
change? We are led to seek, and naturally expect to find,
some ground for it. And accordingly the next verse unfolds
the reason, and explains the occasion of this change in the
counsel of Heaven; a change resting not on their own merits,
but on Divine Mercy. For such a construction will this verse
bear, quite as well as the one usually put upon it; and this
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
construction is far more in unison with the context, than the
received one.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 7.       <lb/>
       :       -</p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 7. :      
-      </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I will take away his blood from out of his mouth, and
his abominations from between his teeth, and he that is left,
even he shall be for our God, and he shall be as a Governor
in Judah, and Ekron as a Jebusite.</hi>
</p>

<p>
With scarcely any alteration in the translation, the words,
even as they stand, admit of a very different acceptation from
that in which they are commonly taken; and instead of being
a figurative expression, borrowed from the rescuing its prey
from the jaws of a lion; in which sense the Jews take it, as a
promise to themselves of deliverance from their enemies; the
words more literally taken, will convey the promise of mercy
and redemption to the remaining Gentiles: whose sin and
pollution are to be taken away, who are to be reclaimed to the
worship of the true God, and admitted to a full participation in
all the blessings, promised to Israel by the coming of the
Messiah.
</p>

<p>
The Gentiles were esteemed polluted by eating things unclean,
which were prohibited to the Jews. Certain animals&mdash;things
strangled&mdash;and the blood in particular were among
the forbidden food. The new covenant removed this prohibition,
thereby taking away the pollution from between
his teeth, as it ceased to be a cause of pollution. The
command given to St. Peter, Acts x. 14, to kill and eat,
where all manner of food was presented to him, was expressly
<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>
received by him as a command to preach the Gospel to
the Gentiles, or to admit them into the Messiah's kingdom;
and this admission was unaccompanied with any such prohibition,
nor was it subsequently given.
</p>

<p>
Eating things sacrificed to idols was another cause of
pollution which the New Covenant removed, by taking
away the cause in the abolition of idolatry. This literal
fulfilment of the words of the prophecy may, however, be
figuratively understood, to foreshew the remission of sins
through Christ, and the admission of the Heathen nations
to the hopes of everlasting life founded on the Gospel.
</p>

<p>
The only change required in the English version is to read
<hi rend='italic'>But</hi>, for <hi rend='italic'>And</hi>,
which are expressed alike by the Hebrew , and
to understand  (or ) <hi rend='italic'>his abominations</hi>, in the sense most
appropriate to it, as alluding to the worship of idols, and we
have the sense already expressed, which perfectly harmonizes
with the context. Whereas, taken in the other sense, what
becomes of the antithesis? Who is <hi rend='italic'>he
that is left</hi>, that <hi rend='italic'>shall
be for our God</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>as a chief in Judah</hi>? Surely it cannot
be the Jew, who shall be as a Jew. But the next words are
decisive, declaring that Ekron and the Jebusite, both Gentiles,
are here intended.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And Ekron as a Jebusite.</hi> This mode of rendering leaves,
indeed, the force of these words rather ambiguous; but there
can be no intelligible sense put upon the  (or ), but that of <hi rend='italic'>in like
manner as</hi>, or, <hi rend='italic'>as well as</hi>; that is, Ekron as well as the
Jebusite, shall both be as Governors in Judah.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 8.       <lb/>
       :       </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 8. :      
      </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I will encamp about mine house because of the army,
because of him that passeth by, and because of him that
returneth; and no oppressor shall pass through them any
more: for now have I seen with mine eyes.</hi>
</p>

<p>
It is not certain, though probable, from 1 Sam. xxvi. 5-7,
that the Jews had entrenched camps; if so, the passage would
be clearer by rendering  (or )
<hi rend='italic'>I will entrench</hi> instead of <hi rend='italic'>encamp</hi>;
though the sense is sufficiently obvious, as meaning to
afford protection against the army, &amp;c. The house of God, to
which protection is promised, is his Temple, figuratively denoting
true religion purified from idolatry; the great spiritual adversary
constantly warring with Israel, and, as we learn from
Scripture, frequently prevailing; which is probably the warfare
here alluded to. But if taken literally, this passage conveys
the promise that the Messiah's kingdom should put an end to
oppression and injustice. The exact import of the expression,
<hi rend='italic'>for now have I seen with mine eyes</hi>, is not very evident; but
may imply God's foreseeing the unfitness of the Jews to receive
a spiritual Messiah; who, in consequence of their rejection of
him, would be given to the Gentiles.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 9.  -     <lb/>
                <lb/>
       :    </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 9. :     - 
                
          </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Rejoice greatly, Daughter of Zion, shout, oh Daughter
of Jerusalem, behold thy King cometh unto thee; he is just
and having salvation, lowly and riding upon an ass, and a
colt the foal of an ass.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>

<p>
There is no ambiguity in the purport of this verse, which
is the coming of the Messiah, as all commentators allow; but
I can in no wise agree with Lowth and others, that this verse
is a rhapsodical digression from the subject of the rest of the
chapter, in which the Prophet being wrought up to the highest
pitch of enthusiasm, breaks off from the immediate object of
his vision to foretel the coming of the Messiah, and then returns
back to his former subject. On the contrary, I can see
nothing like digression here, but one connected and consistent
object throughout; this verse being the keystone of the arch,
which binds together those which precede and those which
follow it, forming the whole into one united and compact body.
Instead of a digression from the subject, I regard this verse as
the clue to guide us through the labyrinth, by fixing and determining
the subject of all the rest.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Behold thy King cometh unto thee</hi>:  (or ) is really the
future tense, literally <hi rend='italic'>shall come</hi>, and changing it to the present,
<hi rend='italic'>cometh</hi>, seems unnecessary, if it does not in some degree interfere
with the chronological order of the events predicted afterwards.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Just and having salvation.</hi> This is certainly an ambiguous
rendering of  (or ) the past participle of the verb  (or ) to save,
which literally signifies <hi rend='italic'>being saved</hi>, and the emphatic  (or )
<hi rend='italic'>himself</hi>, following it,
more strongly marks the sense, as <hi rend='italic'>having
obtained salvation himself</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Riding on an ass, and a colt, the foal of an ass.</hi> The connective
 <hi rend='italic'>and</hi>, should certainly be
rendered here by <hi rend='italic'>even</hi>, or, <hi rend='italic'>to
wit</hi>, and not by <hi rend='italic'>and</hi>, which makes it appear that the Messiah
was to ride upon two asses.
</p>

<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 11.       <lb/>
       :   </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 11. :         </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>As for thee, by the blood of thy covenant, I have sent forth
thy prisoners, from the pit wherein is no water.</hi>
</p>

<p>
That the Messiah is apostrophized in these words, cannot,
surely, admit of doubt or dispute; and words more forcible, or
more pregnant with meaning, upon the Christian's view of them,
it is not easy to conceive.  (or ) <hi rend='italic'>I have sent forth</hi>,
is really the perfect tense, though written several centuries before the
coming of Christ; but it is not at all unusual in prophetic
language to use this tense, which represents as already accomplished,
what is determined in the Divine purpose, although
the fulfilment be still future.
</p>

<p>
The writer is well aware of a formidable objection presented
by the Hebrew punctuation, against the application of this
verse to the Messiah, as the pronoun <q>thee</q>  (or ) is by the
pointing made to be of the feminine gender. This is one of
many instances in which the punctuation tends to embarrass
instead of elucidating the subject of the prophecy&mdash;instances
which have mainly contributed to the determination of the
writer to disregard the points. It remains for those who regard
them as of paramount authority, to offer a solution of this and
other passages equally clear and satisfactory, and equally
consistent throughout. If <q>thee</q> be meant to apostrophise
the daughter of Zion, what blood&mdash;what covenant&mdash;what
prisoners&mdash;what pit, are here alluded to? Upon the view here
offered, the event foreshewn is the death of the Messiah, an
event wholly at variance with the expectations of the Jews, but
<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>
here distinctly announced, along with the most striking particulars
attendant on that event; such as the frustration of the
hopes of temporal advantages expected from his coming&mdash;the
nature of the spiritual blessings which it was really intended to
impart; namely, the remission of sins, and the redemption of
the Gentile world from idolatry. Along with these is stated
the personal character of the Messiah, and the express manner
of his coming; not in glory as expected, but in meekness and
humility&mdash;the peaceful nature of his kingdom&mdash;its boundless
extent, destined to embrace all nations&mdash;yet in apparent contradiction,
his death is intimated, but also his resurrection
whereby he becomes <q><hi rend='italic'>the first fruits of them that slept</hi>.</q>
These are all clearly intimated in this chapter; and of these,
how many have former commentators, with or without the aid
of points, been able to make out? At most, only three or four
verses, as where he is mentioned as riding into Jerusalem on an
ass; and here, according to Blaney, the text requires to be
altered, to shew that he was a Saviour,  (or ) being saved,
being altered into  (or ) a Saviour; while, according to Lowth,
all that here relates to the Messiah is to be regarded as a rhapsodical
digression from the subject of the context.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 12.       <lb/>
       :  </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 12. :         </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Return to the strong hold, ye prisoners of hope, even today
do I declare that I will repay you double.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Such is the received translation, nor as it now stands, does
the sense appear at all ambiguous, signifying, <hi rend='italic'>Return to your
prison-house until the day of your promised liberation arrives</hi>;
<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>
that is, the day of the Messiah's coming. There can
be no doubt who are meant by the prisoners, but the change
of number in the personal pronoun, from plural to singular,
makes it not improbable that the latter part of this line is addressed
to the Messiah, who was apostrophized in the verse
preceding. Upon this view the word  (or ) may be rendered,
<hi rend='italic'>my prisoners</hi>, instead of
<hi rend='italic'>prisoners of hope</hi>, which is rather obscure;
and  (or ) as the imperative hithpael of the verb
 (or ) to wait. And the sense will then be as given in the text;
<hi rend='italic'>Return to the strong hold, my prisoners: wait thou till the
day I declare that I will repay thee double.</hi>
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 13.       <lb/>
       :        </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 13. :      
                </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>When I have bent Judah for me, filled the bow Ephraim,
and raised up thy sons, Oh Zion! against thy sons, Oh
Greece! and made thee as the sword of a mighty man.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Here  (or ), which signifies <hi rend='italic'>for</hi>,
is rendered <hi rend='italic'>when</hi>, thus imposing
a future signification on the verbs that follow. This has, no
doubt, arisen from a supposed allusion to the subsequent wars
of Judas Maccabeus. But Ephraim, or the ten tribes, having
no share in those wars, militates against that supposition; and
it seems more probable that this verse, instead of designating
the <hi rend='italic'>time when</hi> the promised blessing would be conferred upon
the Gentiles, here declares the <hi rend='italic'>reason why</hi> the Messiah could
not be sent to them directly and unconditionally; namely, because
he was previously promised to Israel. <hi rend='italic'>For I have bent
Judah for me, filled the bow Ephraim</hi>; that is, I have chosen
<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>
Israel as my people, and appointed them my instruments for
the overthrow of paganism. And, accordingly, to the house of
Israel he came, and was by some of them received; nor until
the great body of that people declined the office, were the
Gentiles called in to fill up the ranks, and carry on the spiritual
warfare; a warfare which was thenceforward carried on by both
in conjunction, for the first Christians still were Jews, though
blindness came in part over Israel.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 14.       <lb/>
        :     </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 14. :      
            </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the Lord shall be seen over them, and his arrow shall
go forth as the lightning; and the Lord God shall blow the
trumpet, and shall go forth with whirlwinds of the South.</hi>
</p>

<p>
This and the following verse evidently contain promises of
Divine protection, and of triumphant success; but to whom
these promises are given may admit of a question.  (or )
<hi rend='italic'>over them</hi>, may mean the Jews last spoken of, or the Gentiles
mentioned before, or it may apply to both. And if the
triumph of true religion over Pagan idolatry be the victory here
spoken of, as this was obtained by both in conjunction, during
the Apostolic age at least, so both must be included in the promises.
Nor can any construction, worthy of the subject, or
adequate in dignity and importance, be put upon the expression,
<hi rend='italic'>the sons of Zion</hi>, and
<hi rend='italic'>the sons of Greece</hi>, but that which
refers to the religion of each. The triumph of true religion
over idolatry was one that affected the whole world, including
every country, and extending to every age, and regarding the
eternal as well as temporal interests of mankind.
</p>

<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 15.       <lb/>
       .        </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 15. .      
               </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the Lord of hosts shall defend them; and they shall
devour, and subdue with sling stones; and they shall drink
and make a noise as through wine; and they shall be filled
like bowls, and as the corners of the altar.</hi>
</p>

<p>
To take these expressions in the literal sense, as promising to
man the grossest of sensual indulgences, would surely be a strange
misconstruction of prophetic language;  (or ) which is rendered,
<hi rend='italic'>and make a noise</hi>, is not
preceded by the connective  <hi rend='italic'>and</hi>; it
may, therefore, be simply the personal pronoun <hi rend='italic'>they</hi>, being the
nominative to the verb <hi rend='italic'>drink</hi>;
<hi rend='italic'>they shall drink as of wine</hi>,
&amp;c. Who is intended by the pronoun <hi rend='italic'>they</hi>, if at all doubtful
here, becomes sufficiently clear in the next verse, where it is
repeated in a manner that leaves no ambiguity, at least as far
as concerns the Gentiles.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 16.      <lb/>
       :      </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 16. :     
             </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the Lord their God shall save them in that day, as the
flock of his people, for they shall be as the stones of a
crown, lifted up as an ensign upon his land.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Here the pronoun <hi rend='italic'>them</hi>, in evident contradistinction with
<hi rend='italic'>his people</hi>, shews that two nations are spoken of; otherwise
the passage might be rendered, <hi rend='italic'>the Lord God, shall save as a
flock, his people</hi>. But the antithesis marked by the pronoun
<hi rend='italic'>them</hi>, is rendered still more obvious, if possible, in the next
line. <hi rend='italic'>For the wall of separation
is waving</hi> (or tottering) <hi rend='italic'>over
his land</hi>. Such is the literal meaning of the Hebrew, when
<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>
the words are taken in their primary and ordinary sense.
Thus,  (or ) in its usual sense means,
<hi rend='italic'>stones</hi>, as the stones of a
wall; but in a more remote and figurative sense, <hi rend='italic'>precious
stones</hi>:  (or ) in the primary sense, signifies,
<hi rend='italic'>to separate</hi>, or, <hi rend='italic'>separation</hi>;
occurring in this sense ten times at least in Numbers,
ch. vi.; but in the secondary or more remote sense, <hi rend='italic'>a
diadem</hi>, which separates or distinguishes the prince from the
people:  (or ) in the primary sense means to wave to and fro,
as a flag, or as a wall before it is blown down by the wind;
but, in a secondary sense it signifies, as some understand it
here, to glitter or sparkle, as a diamond, when waved or
moved. Thus we see the pains taken to avoid the plain
and obvious sense of the passage; but the Hebrew scholar
will judge for himself.
</p>

<p>
The concluding verse, in which the prophet breaks forth into
expressions of adoration and praise for the goodness of the Lord,
well accords with this view of his bounty being unlimited, and
extending to all his creatures alike.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Rabbi's Exposition
And
Reply,
Chapter IX.</head>

<p>
As I conclude that the object of the Christian,
who thinks he sees in this Prophecy a clear
prediction of the coming of Jesus Christ, is to
learn in what manner it is expounded by the
Jews; it appears to me that the simplest way
in which I can reply, will be to lay before
him what I conceive to be the proper translation
and interpretation. In doing this, it will
be unnecessary to offer any further explanation
or exposition, beyond what may be given
in the form of comment on the translation;
while he is at liberty to conclude with regard
to those passages, where no comment or explanation
<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>
is offered, not, assuredly, that I assent
to <emph>his</emph> interpretation, but merely that I
acquiesce in the reasons he assigns for my
dissent; or that his anticipation of my argument
has rendered its repetition superfluous,
as is the case in verses 9 and 10. The following
is my mode of translating this chapter
and expounding it:&mdash;
</p>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Zechariah, Chapter IX.</head>

<p>
Verse 1. <hi rend='italic'>The burden of the word of the Lord
on the land of Hadrach, and Damascus, his residence;
for to the Lord (will be) the eye of man,
and (particularly that) of all the tribes of Israel.</hi>
</p>

<p>
This prophecy is directed against a king
named Hadrach, and against Damascus his
residence. According to some who have
visited Syria, there is to this day, near the
desert, a village bearing the name of that
king, whose inhabitants assert that formerly
a large district about it, that constituted a
powerful kingdom, was called by the same
name.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>For to the Lord</hi>, saith the prophet, <hi rend='italic'>will be the
eye of man</hi>, agreeably to what he further declareth,
<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>
that the extermination of the wicked
will precede the turning to God, the eyes of
the residue of man.
</p>

<p>
Verse 2. <hi rend='italic'>And also (on) Hamath which borders
on her; (on) Tyre, and (on) Sidon, though she be
very wise.</hi> Verse 3. <hi rend='italic'>And Tyre did build herself
a strong hold, and heaped up silver as dust, and
gold as mire of the streets.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The burden of the Lord is also touching
Hamath, which was bordering on the former;
also Tyre, and Sidon, which thought herself
very wise; yet her wisdom availed her nothing,
as was also foretold by Ezekiel, chap. xxvii.
ver. 32.
</p>

<p>
Verse 4. <hi rend='italic'>Behold the Lord will make her poor,
and smite her power in the sea, and she shall be
devoured with fire.</hi> Verse 5. <hi rend='italic'>Ashkelon shall see
it and fear; Gaza also, and she shall be very sorrowful.
Ekron also, for he (God) has made
ashamed her expectation: and the king shall perish
from Gaza: and Ashkelon shall not remain.</hi>
Verse 6. <hi rend='italic'>And a foreigner shall dwell in Ashdod,
and I will cut of the pride of the Philistines.</hi>
</p>

<p>
All the foregoing is known from history to
have been already accomplished, through the
conquests of Alexander the Macedonian; who
<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>
also destroyed the fleet of Tyre, and smote
her power on the sea. Among others also,
it is said, Ekron shall be very sorrowful, since
her hope was blasted; Tyre, on which she
solely confided, being destroyed.
</p>

<p>
Verse 7. <hi rend='italic'>And when I shall have taken away
his blood out of his mouth, and his abominations
from between his teeth; then even he shall remain
for our God, and he shall be as a chief in Judah,
and Ekron like Jebusi.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Now the prophet continues to predict, what
is yet to be accomplished, that after their
filth and pollution shall have been taken
away, a remnant of them also will be to God;
each of whom will not be inferior even to a
chief in Judah, and Ekron will be in a manner
as holy as Jebusi, which is Jerusalem. See
Joshua, chap. xviii. ver. 28.
</p>

<p>
This, and all that is connected with it, to
the end of the following chapter, may refer to
a remoter period, to which the mind of the
prophet was suddenly transported; or these
events may have been intended, immediately
after the overthrow of these nations, to have
followed under one of the princes of Judah,
who was already joined by a part of Ephraim;
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
and the whole of whom would have been
gathered under his banners, were not this delayed
on account of their having acted contrary
to the will of God. For, that the promises
of God are conditional, and sometimes
delayed, if those to whom they were made,
render themselves undeserving of them, appears
in many instances. See Zech. chap.
viii. ver. 14-16. Jeremiah, chap. xviii. ver.
9-10. Among other instances, may be cited
what took place with our ancestors, who went
out of Egypt. The land of Canaan promised
to Abraham (Genesis, chap. xv. ver. 16.) was
again promised to them, even after their
having worshipped the calf&mdash;Exodus, chap.
xxxiii. ver. 1.&mdash;yet, for their frequent rebellions,
was the fulfilment of this promise
finally delayed to another generation. (Numb.
chap. xiv. ver. 23.) Nay, it even appears
that it would have been retracted, or at least
delayed many generations, but for the intercession
of Moses. (Exod. chap. xxxii. ver.
10.) And, in like manner, may the fulfilment
of these promises, and that of others, which
follow, respecting the restoration of Israel, be
<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>
delayed, in consequence of the wickedness
of our people, exciting the displeasure of the
Lord.
</p>

<p>
Verse 8. <hi rend='italic'>And I will encamp about my house
(to protect) against an army, against one passing
and returning, and no oppressor shall pass over
them any more: for now have I seen it with my
eyes.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Now have I seen it with mine eyes,
means having graciously turned his particular
attention to them, as is similarly expressed in
Exod. chap. ii. ver. 25.
</p>

<p>
Ver. 9. <hi rend='italic'>Rejoice greatly, daughter of Zion,
shout, daughter of Jerusalem, behold thy King
shall come unto thee just, and he being saved,
humble and riding upon an ass, the foal of an ass.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Ver. 10. <hi rend='italic'>And I will cut off the chariot from
Ephraim, and the horse from Jerusalem, and the
battle bow shall be cut off, and he shall speak peace
unto nations; and his dominion shall be from sea
to sea, and from the river to the end of the earth.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Verse 11. <hi rend='italic'>Also thou, by the blood of thy
covenant, I have sent away thy prisoners out of the
pit, wherein is no water.</hi>
</p>

<p>
By the blood of the covenant, apparently,
<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>
is meant that related in Exod. chap. xxiv.
ver. 8. A pit without water means a land of
captivity.
</p>

<p>
Verse 12. <hi rend='italic'>Return ye to the strong hold, ye
prisoners of hope, even to-day <hi rend='smallcaps'>(i)</hi>
declare <hi rend='smallcaps'>(that)</hi> I
will render double unto thee.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The prisoners are to return and shelter in
this strong hold.
</p>

<p>
Verse 13. <hi rend='italic'>For I have bent Judah for me,
filled the bow Ephraim, and raised up thy sons,
Oh Zion! against thy sons, Oh Greece! and made
thee as the sword of a mighty man.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Judah and Ephraim are represented as
warlike instruments in the hand of God, the
sword, and the bow which he bends, and fills
his hand with; similar to the expression in
2 Kings, chap. ix. ver. 24.
</p>

<p>
Verse 14. <hi rend='italic'>And the Lord shall be seen over
them, and his arrow shall go forth as lightning;
and the Lord God shall blow the trumpet, and shall
go forth with the whirlwinds of the South.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Verse 15. <hi rend='italic'>The Lord of hosts shall defend them;
and they shall devour, and subdue the sling stones;
and noisily drink (their blood) as wine; and they
shall be filled as a bowl, as the corners of an
altar.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>

<p>
The prophet in derision here compares
their enemies to sling-stones, contrasted with
which in verse 16 that follows, Israel is compared
to precious stones; and of whom it was
before said that they were the sword in the
hand of the Lord, to be filled with the blood
of their relentless persecutors. See also
Isaiah, chap. xxxiv. ver. 6.
</p>

<p>
Verse 16. <hi rend='italic'>And the Lord their God will save
them, his people as a flock, for as the stones of a
crown shall they be glittering upon his land.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Verse 17. <hi rend='italic'>For how great is his goodness, and
how great is his beauty! The young men he will
make as fruitful as corn, and the maids as wine.</hi>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Remarks
On The
Rabbi's Exposition.</head>

<p>
Were I candidly to express my sentiments, I
might say, perhaps, that the Rabbi's answer
had disappointed me, being neither so full
nor so forcible as I expected; but if he, as
a Jew, be satisfied, it is not for me as a
Christian to complain. There are, moreover,
certain points of coincidence in our translation,
in which the acquiescence of the Rabbi,
as a distinguished Hebrew scholar, is truly
gratifying; while there are also some points
of disagreement, in which I am inclined to
relinquish my own in favour of the Rabbi's
translation. I propose briefly to advert to
<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>
each; but there is one circumstance that first
deserves to be noticed, and which, however
singular it may appear, might yet have been
expected. It is this, that wherever I have
ventured to differ from Christian commentators,
there I am also at issue with the Rabbi.
Now, having formerly stated that our received
translation is chiefly founded on the Masoretic
punctuation, which is Jewish, a coincidence
was naturally to be looked for between the
Jew's exposition, and that which is in a
great measure borrowed from it. And accordingly
such is the case, the Jew's exposition
differing from that of our own commentators,
principally on those points where the latter
discover allusions to Christ. These, the Jew,
of course, no where finds.
</p>

<p>
Now, what the Jew no where perceives, and
the Christian only here and there, as it were
incidentally, I maintain to be wholly and
solely the subject of these chapters. This
is, at least, a broad and well marked line of
distinction: but here I unfortunately stand
alone, having Christian as well as Jew opposed
to me. Even the Jew allows that the
subject of the latter part of this prophecy is
<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>
the Messiah and his kingdom; but if Christ
be the Messiah, as the Christian must admit,
then is Christianity his kingdom, and the
subject of the prophecy. So much for the
state of the question.
</p>

<p>
The first point of disagreement between us
is unconnected with the punctuation, and is
one of little importance to the question, beyond
what it may derive from the concurrence
of my opponents. The Rabbi and Dr. Blaney
agree in regarding Hadrach in the first verse,
as the name of a prince, instead of a city or
state. The Rabbi gives no authority for his
opinion, and Dr. Blaney supports his by the
conjecture that Rehob, spoken of in 2 Sam.
viii. 3, who is by Josephus named  or
, may be the prince alluded to. Now
since the avowed reason for resorting to this
supposition is the want of a city of this name,
I would venture to suggest, that Aradus
bears quite as much resemblance to Hadrach
as  does; and to Aradus was annexed a
considerable district of country, which was
precisely the first conquered by Alexander,
when he invaded Syria, as appears by the
following citation from Quintus Curtius, lib. 4.
<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>
cap. 1. <q>Aradus quoque insula deditur regi.
Maritimam tum oram, pleraque longius 
mari residentia, rex ejus insul Strato possidebat.
Quo in fidem accepto, castra movet
ad urbem Marathon.</q> Aradus, like Tyre,
was the daughter of Sidon, as stated by
Strabo;   ,  ,  .
These then, are circumstances which add
weight to the supposition that Aradus may be
here intended; but still it is no more than
conjecture, and as such, <hi rend='italic'>quod valet, valeat</hi>.
</p>

<p>
In the same verse, the Rabbi's rendering
of  (or ) <hi rend='italic'>his residence</hi>, must, of course, stand
or fall with the previous question, Whether
Hadrach be the name of a man or a city? If
it be that of a prince, whose residence was
Damascus, I have only to observe, that no
such person appears to have resided there at
the time the prophet wrote, and this is the
only time that can accord with the Rabbi's
translation.
</p>

<p>
With regard to the last line of this verse,
which the Rabbi renders nearly in the same
manner as our commentators, <hi rend='italic'>for to the Lord
will be the eye of man</hi>, &amp;c. I can only say, that
he does not appear to me to have thrown any
<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>
new light upon the passage, the sense remaining
as vague and obscure as before. But let
the reader judge for himself.
</p>

<p>
In verse 2nd, the Rabbi agreeing with
Lowth, renders  (or ) as an active verb,
<q><hi rend='italic'>which borders on her</hi>,</q> while Blaney, with
me, makes it passive. If, by Hadrach, be
intended the district of country extending
inland from the town of Aradus, this would
lead us directly to Epiphania, which was the
lesser Hamath; and this expression might be
meant to distinguish it from the greater Hamath,
the modern Antioch; but the Rabbi
does not acquiesce in this meaning of Hadrach;
and, upon the whole, I see no sufficient
reason to relinquish my own mode of
rendering.
</p>

<p>
In verse 4th, the Rabbi's translation, <q><hi rend='italic'>Behold
the Lord will make her poor</hi>,</q> I certainly
prefer to that of our version, namely, <q><hi rend='italic'>shall
cast her out</hi>;</q> but his explanation of the remainder
of this verse, <q><hi rend='italic'>and smite her power in
the sea, and she shall be devoured with fire</hi>,</q> appears
less satisfactory than that of Dr. Blaney,
which I have adopted from him. The Rabbi
explains the accomplishment of this passage
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
by Alexander's defeating the fleet of the
Tyrians, and burning their city; but such an
interpretation is hardly borne out by history;
a few occasional skirmishes by sea, and a
partial conflagration, after the city was taken,
being the utmost that took place. And accordingly
this verse has been otherwise explained
by Lowth, who understands the <q><hi rend='italic'>smiting
her power in the sea</hi>,</q> as referring to the insular
situation of new Tyre; but Dr. Blaney,
by a mode of rendering fully warranted by
the Hebrew text, applies these words to Sidon,
where they received their accomplishment in
a manner strikingly peculiar. The difference
of translation consists in reading&mdash;<q><hi rend='italic'>For she</hi>
(Sidon) <hi rend='italic'>has built Tyre, a fortress for herself</hi>,</q>
instead of <q><hi rend='italic'>For Tyre has built a fortress for
herself</hi>;</q> thus applying the expressions which
follow to Sidon, instead of Tyre; which, however,
is not thereby excluded from a full participation
in the burden of the prophecy, evidently
denounced against both. In regard to
Sidon, the fulfilment was as follows:&mdash;When
besieged by Artaxerxes Ochus, some years
earlier than the siege of Tyre by Alexander,
the Sidonians, lest individuals might be
<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>
tempted to seek their personal safety by flight,
and abandon the defence of the city, burned
all their shipping in the first instance; and,
when, by the cowardly treachery of their king,
the enemy was admitted within their walls;
they then set fire to their houses, and consumed
their city, their families, their wealth,
and themselves; no less than forty thousand
perishing in the flames, according to Diod.
Sic.:       , 
  ,   
.
Lib. 16. cap. 45.
</p>

<p>
In verse 5. The fate of Gaza and its governor,
who was dragged round the city by
Alexander, in imitation of Achilles, though
noticed by Lowth, is disregarded by Blaney,
for what reason I know not, since this seems
as well intitled to notice as any other literal
fulfilment of prophecy.
</p>

<p>
In verse 7th, the Rabbi's acquiescence in
the meaning of the words, <q><hi rend='italic'>when I have taken
away his blood out of his mouth and his pollution
from between his teeth</hi>;</q> as signifying, literally,
the taking away of sin and pollution, is highly
important to the Christian exposition, for it
intimates the first and greatest benefit we
<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>
derive from the coming of the Messiah. That
the Rabbi does not so understand it, as alluding
to the remission of sins through Christ, is
not to be wondered at; but it does seem singular
that Lowth and Blaney should have
disregarded or misunderstood so remarkable a
passage, in the sense of which even the Jew
acquiesces, though not in the application.
 (or ), according to the Rabbi, means Jerusalem,
that is, <q><hi rend='italic'>Ekron shall be as Jerusalem</hi>.</q>
Now the Jebusites were the original inhabitants
of Jerusalem, it is true; but why the
prophet should here use the word Jebusi
for Jerusalem, and here only, is rather unaccountable,
and I cannot but prefer the translation
I have given.
</p>

<p>
In verses 8, 9, 10, there is no material disagreement
between us either in the translation
or the interpretation. Here Jew and
Christian agree in applying these verses to
the coming of the Messiah. The only question
between us is, whether Christ be the
Messiah, which the Rabbi, of course, denies.
</p>

<p>
Verse 11. In the words, <q><hi rend='italic'>By the blood of
thy covenant</hi>,</q> &amp;c. it was not to be expected
<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>
that the Rabbi would see any intimation of a
covenant for the redemption of mankind,
sealed with the blood of Christ; though we
might have looked for it in Dr. Blaney. The
application of this and the two preceding
verses to Christianity, was so clearly perceived,
and so ably expounded by Lowth, that
we only wonder he should have confined that
view to these three verses, considering them
as a digression, when by extending the same
principle of interpretation to other parts of
the prophecy, he might have found a clue to
the solution of many difficulties. The want of
this clue obliges Dr. Blaney to come to the
same conclusion as the Rabbi, that the remaining
part of the prophecy is still unaccomplished;
a conclusion which I am compelled
most strenuously to oppose. To the
Jew, the suspension of the fulfilment of this
prophecy would be almost equivalent to that
of all others; for the Messiah's kingdom is
alike the subject of all, and if this one be unaccomplished,
then must they all be so. To
the Jew then, I would say&mdash;Is this consonant
with the previous ordinations of God in the
government of the world, to leave an interval
<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>
of more than two thousand years, without the
fulfilment of prophecy, which is to mankind,
the most convincing of all proofs of his Divine
superintendance and control over human
affairs? To Dr. Blaney, on the other hand,
who conceives that <q>since our Saviour's appearance
on earth, nothing has happened to
the Jewish nation in any degree answerable
to what is here predicted; no return from
captivity, no victories, no successes,</q> &amp;c.; to
him I would say, why may not <q><hi rend='italic'>the children
of the promise</hi></q> be here included as well as
<q><hi rend='italic'>the children of the flesh?</hi></q> The first Christians
were Jews, the apostles and disciples
were Jews, while the converted Gentiles were
no less styled, <q><hi rend='italic'>Israelites by adoption</hi>;</q> and
so they are continually called in prophetic
language. If then the terms, <q><hi rend='italic'>Sons of Zion</hi></q>
and <q><hi rend='italic'>Israel of God</hi>,</q> be <emph>not less</emph> applicable to
those who received Christ for their Messiah,
than to those who rejected him; we cannot
surely say with Dr. Blaney, that there have
been no return from captivity, no victories,
no successes, since the coming of Christ; for
it will hardly be maintained that redemption
from the bondage of sin is no return from captivity;
<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>
that the triumph of Christianity over
paganism is no victory, and the rapid propagation
of the Gospel no success.
</p>

<p>
In verse 12, <q><hi rend='italic'>The strong hold</hi>,</q> which is
evidently the same as the prison-house, called
in the preceding verse, <q><hi rend='italic'>the pit without water</hi>,</q>
and which the Rabbi allows to be a state of
captivity, is here, somewhat abruptly, transformed
into a place of shelter and protection.
</p>

<p>
Verse 15. The Rabbi's idea, that the prophet
here uses the term <q><hi rend='italic'>sling-stones</hi>,</q> in
derision, as an appellative for the enemies
of Israel, while he applies to themselves, in
the next verse, the term <q><hi rend='italic'>precious stones</hi>,</q> appears
to me, I must acknowledge, somewhat
novel; and as I dispute that translation of
the next verse altogether, so I cannot acquiesce
in such an explanation of this. With
regard to the rendering of  (or ) in the same
verse, which I have considered as the personal
pronoun, <q><hi rend='italic'>they</hi>,</q> instead of the verb <q><hi rend='italic'>to
make a noise</hi></q>&mdash;I believe the Rabbi's, upon re-considering
the passage, to be the more correct
translation.
</p>

<p>
But these verbal differences, however they
may interest the Hebrew scholar, are of trivial
<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>
importance, as regarding the grand question
between us, namely, whether the accomplishment
of the predictions contained in this
chapter, ceases before we arrive at verse 9,
which is admitted to announce the coming of
the Messiah. Upon this point, then, I plead
the general issue. If I succeed in shewing
that every part of the prophecy in the following
chapters, as well as the present, has been
clearly accomplished in the leading events of
the history of Christianity, I gain my cause.
If I fail to do so, let the verdict go for the
Jew.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Zechariah
On The
Messiah's Kingdom.
Interpretation: Chapter X.</head>

<p>
Two points appeared to be established in
the last chapter; one, that the Messiah's kingdom
is the subject of this part of the prophecy,
and the other, that that kingdom is a
spiritual one; or these points, if not proved,
were, at least, shewn to be in perfect accordance
with every verse, and every line contained
in that chapter.
</p>

<p>
That the Messiah's kingdom is the subject,
appeared from the express declaration of the
9th verse, <q><hi rend='italic'>Behold, thy King cometh</hi>,</q> &amp;c., and
<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>
from the exact accordance of every other with
this view.
</p>

<p>
The circumstances that intimated the spiritual
nature of that kingdom, and shewed
that the prophecy refers to Christianity, were
the following:&mdash;the denunciations against
worldly-mindedness, wherewith the subject is
prefaced and introduced; these being immediately
followed by, and contrasted with the
promise of spiritual blessings from the Messiah's
coming; which were declared to be
the remission of sins, and the redemption of
the Gentile world from the darkness of idolatry;&mdash;next,
the personal character of the Messiah,
and the express manner of his coming,
namely, in meekness and humility;&mdash;the
peaceful nature of his reign;&mdash;the shedding
of his blood for the redemption of mankind
from the bondage of sin;&mdash;the joint instrumentality
of Israel in the accomplishment of
the great scheme of redemption, but the admission
of the Gentiles to a full participation
in the blessings which result from it, and the
removal of the partition wall, mentioned by
St. Paul, (Ephes. ii. 14,) by which they had
been previously excluded from them. These
<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>
are the circumstances that declare the spirituality
of the Messiah's kingdom, and these
are clearly intimated in the last chapter.
</p>

<p>
The present will be found to contain somewhat
less variety of incident, with more of exhortations
and promises than the preceding.
These are more particularly addressed to
the house of Judah, but their subsequent extension
to <q><hi rend='italic'>them of Ephraim</hi></q> also, is a circumstance
that calls for some explanation,
without which it would be difficult to shew the
chronological order of the events foretold.
</p>

<p>
Ephraim, or the ten tribes, had gone into
captivity long before the time when the prophecy
was uttered, which was that of the
building of the second temple; nor have these
tribes since returned, (what is become of them,
or whether they be now in existence, being
wholly unknown,) yet is their return from
captivity here distinctly foretold. What, then,
are we to understand by this return, or who is
intended by <q><hi rend='italic'>them of Ephraim</hi>,</q> is the question?
</p>

<p>
On the spiritual view, the captivity means
the bondage of sin, and especially of idolatry,
into which Ephraim had fallen by their apostacy;
<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>
and their return will mean their return
to true religion, whereby they obtain the remission
of their sins, and the gift of eternal
life. But what is meant by <q><hi rend='italic'>them of Ephraim</hi></q>?
Are we to understand thereby the original ten
tribes who revolted with Jeroboam, and whose
descendants are not known to be now in existence?
or the remnant of those tribes who
returned to Jerusalem, (2 Chron. xi. 16,) and
who having joined the tribe of Judah have
since become mixed and identified with
them?
</p>

<p>
On this latter view the prophecy may already
in part have received its fulfilment, as
some of this remnant, mixed with the tribes of
Judah and Benjamin, in the apostolic age,
were probably among the number of our Lord's
disciples, and were thus redeemed from the
bondage of sin, and have already shared in
the triumphs and blessings of the Gospel.
On the former view, supposing, what is not
impossible, that these tribes are still in existence,
we must look chiefly to the future, as
regards them, for the accomplishment of this
part of the prophecy. But whichever view
we embrace, as to those who constitute now
<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>
the ten tribes, we must still look to the future,
(and this is the point to be attended to,) for
the full and perfect fulfilment of the prophecy;
for so long as any of the house of Israel remain
unredeemed, so long must they be regarded,
in the spiritual view, which is the
view we embrace, as still remaining in the
bondage of sin, and not yet returned from
captivity.
</p>

<p>
This then is the essential point as regards
the prophetic chronology, that where events
are spoken of, which, like the restoration of
Israel, are continuous from age to age, or
destined to occupy many centuries in their
fulfilment, there the prophetic view must needs
accord with the nature of the events, comprising
at one glance the commencement, the
continuance, and the completion of what is
foretold; consequently these events not being
limited to particular periods like the ordinary
occurrences of history, like the fate of a battle
or the fall of a monarchy, cannot be dated
with chronological precision, except it be
from the time of their commencement. And
precisely of this nature are the events which
form the subject of the chapter before us.
</p>

<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>

<p>
The first of these in order, as well as importance,
is the progress of the Gospel of
Christ, or the triumph of Judah, which began
with the apostolic age, and has since continued
progressive, though with a fluctuating
career, and unequal success, up to the present
time, when it extends over a large portion of
the habitable world; but still without having
attained to any thing like the universality announced
in prophecy. This then is an event,
which being still progressive, is not limitable
to a particular period, nor capable of being
dated with precision except from its commencement.
</p>

<p>
Next to this, or to the triumph of Judah,
is the promised restoration of Israel, which
cannot be deemed complete, while so many of
the house of Israel, dispersed over the nations
of Christendom, still rest their hopes on the
covenant of the Law; a covenant which we
as Christians believe to have been annulled at
the promulgation of the Gospel; but which
from the first offered only temporal rewards,
and unlike the covenant of grace, gave no
distinct promises of eternal life. That the
remaining Israelites will ultimately awaken
<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>
to a sense of these advantages, we may confidently
expect from this promise of restoration,
and from the predicted universality of
the Messiah's kingdom. This then is also an
event yet imperfectly accomplished, or still in
a state of progression, and therefore yet incapable
of being dated with precision.
</p>

<p>
The abolition of Paganism is another, which
though nominally effected at the beginning
of the fourth century, is yet so far from being
complete, that Paganism still prevails over the
largest portion of the globe; and consequently
this, like the former, is an event which can be
dated only from its commencement. Bearing
then in mind the nature of these events, and
the impossibility of limiting the date of them
to definite periods, we may now proceed with
the interpretation of the prophecy.
</p>

<p>
As the last chapter opened with denunciations
of divine wrath against worldly-mindedness,
which were followed by, and contrasted
with the unfolding of the spiritual nature
of the Messiah's kingdom, so the present
chapter opens with exhortations to seek for
spiritual blessings, and with the promise of
<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>
their abundant bestowal on those who ask for
them.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ask ye of the Lord rain in the time of the latter
rain; so the Lord causing lightning, shall bring
heavy showers, and give to every one grass in the
field.</hi>
</p>

<p>
This language is metaphorical, it is true,
and so is invariably that which is employed
in describing the plenteousness of the Messiah's
kingdom, abounding in corn, wine, and
oil, natural plenty signifying abundance in
spiritual blessings. Were any one disposed
to take such expressions in a strictly literal
sense, he would soon find it impossible, for,
most of them are mixed metaphors, such as
<hi rend='italic'>waters of life</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>trees
of righteousness</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>garments of
salvation</hi>, of which part at least must be figurative;
and the spiritual sense is in fact the
most literal of any that can possibly be affixed
to them. <hi rend='italic'>Ask ye of the Lord rain</hi>, signifies
seek the blessings of righteousness, and they
shall be freely given to you. When viewed
in this light, we shall readily perceive the
connection between this and the next verse,
which contrasts the value of true, with the
<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>
worthlessness and deceitfulness of false religion.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>For the idols have spoken vanity, and the
diviners have seen a lie; and told false dreams;
they comfort in vain.</hi>
</p>

<p>
That is, the heathen priests and oracles
promise blessings which they have no power
to bestow, but delude their votaries with false
hopes, leading them astray, and leaving them
to wander as a flock without a shepherd.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Therefore they went their way as a flock, they
were troubled because there was no shepherd.</hi>
</p>

<p>
A religion like Paganism, which allowed
the unrestrained indulgence of the passions,
of pride, avarice, and ambition, was well calculated
to seduce; and the Jews, in spite of
the continual exhortations of their prophets,
in spite of the many signal miracles displayed
to them, and wrought in their behalf, had frequently
relapsed into idolatry. Nor can it be
supposed that the outward worship of idols
was alone displeasing to God, and that the
indulgence of the passions, which was the soul
and spirit of idolatry, was disregarded. The
spirit was at least as likely as the form of Paganism
to be offensive to Heaven; and accordingly
<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>
it was continually denounced by the
prophets, and had been frequently punished
by signal acts of judgment. And in this did
the Jewish priests and rulers still offend, by
their avarice and worldly-mindedness, and
thus incur the displeasure of Heaven, as
already intimated, and here repeated.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Mine anger is kindled against the shepherds,
and I will punish the goats.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The shepherds are the guardians, the goats
the leaders of the flock; but the Jewish shepherds
and leaders misled their flock, and as
their forefathers, under Jeroboam, had embraced
idolatry, and were therefore allowed to
be carried away into captivity, so their posterity,
seduced by similar passions, rejected
the blessings of the Gospel, and were suffered
to remain in the bondage of sin. But the
house of Judah having remained faithful, to
them was the Messiah promised; and given
to those who were willing to receive him.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>But the Lord of hosts hath visited his flock, the
house of Judah, and made them as his goodly horse
in battle. Out of him shall come the corner-stone;
out of him, the nail; out of him, the battle bow;
out of him every ruler together.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>

<p>
Triumphant career and success are herein
promised to Judah, but the Messiah's kingdom
having been already declared to be a
peaceful one, we cannot suppose literal warfare
to be here intended. The triumph of
true religion over Paganism is no doubt the
warfare to be understood.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And they shall be as mighty men who tread down
their enemies in the mire of the streets in battle;
and they shall fight because the Lord is with them,
and they shall confound the riders on horses.</hi>
</p>

<p>
And while this triumph is promised to
Judah, mercy and forgiveness are declared to
Israel also, and their return from captivity is
foretold.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I will strengthen the house of Judah, and
I will save the house of Joseph, and I will bring
them again to place them, for I have mercy upon
them, and they shall be as though I had not cast
them off; for I am the Lord their God, and will
hear them. And they of Ephraim shall be like
a mighty man, and their heart shall rejoice as
through wine, yea their children shall see it and be
glad, their heart shall rejoice in the Lord.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The complete fulfilment of this part of the
prophecy must still be future, whether we
<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>
consider it as referring to the Jews now dispersed
over different countries, or to the ten
tribes who went into captivity.
</p>

<p>
In most countries of Europe and probably
of Asia also, the usual mode of call to a
person just within hearing is a shrill kind of
hiss, which is the more readily noticed
because differing from all other sounds.
This expression is accordingly used in the
prophecy to express the recal of Israel,
whether spiritual or otherwise.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>I will hiss for them, and gather them, for I
have redeemed them, and they shall increase as
they have increased.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The next verse speaks of sowing them
again among the people, which appears at
first as if again declaring their dispersion;
but on the spiritual view there is no reason to
suppose that such is the meaning. Sowing
them among the people, on this view will signify
the blending together of Jews and Gentiles,
by their embracing one common faith;
whereby they at length become one race, and
all distinction is lost under the common denomination
of Christians. This also explains
the rapid increase of their numbers here foretold,
<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>
as well as their return from captivity,
and their living again. The increase of numbers
arising from the accession of converts;
their return from captivity, signifying redemption
from the bondage of sin; and their
living, the resurrection to eternal life through
Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I will sow them among the people, and they
shall remember me in far countries, and they shall
live with their children, and turn again.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The spirituality of this return and gathering
becomes still clearer as we proceed, signifying
the flowing together of all nations, Gentiles as
well as Jews, into the house of the Lord.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I will bring them again out of the land of
Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria, and I will
bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon;
and place shall not be found for them.</hi>
</p>

<p>
This extraordinary increase of numbers,
which is to overflow all countries, strongly
favours the spiritual view, for the actual
number of the Hebrew nation is avowedly diminishing,
and becoming less and less likely
to perform the wonderful changes next intimated.
The sea and the isles were common
expressions for the Gentile nations, (Gen. x. 5,)
<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>
while the land signifies always the Jews, from
Palestine or the Holy Land&mdash;see note. Rivers
denote in prophetic language, the people residing
on their borders. (Isaiah viii. 7.) <emph>The</emph>
river, in particular, signifies the Euphrates
and the Eastern nations bordering upon it.
This will serve as a key to the meaning of the
next verse, which announces the subversion of
Paganism in these different countries. Thus,
<hi rend='italic'>afflicting the sea and smiting the waves</hi>, denote its
extinction in the West; <hi rend='italic'>drying up the depths of
the river</hi>, signify its extinction in the East;
<hi rend='italic'>and bringing down the pride of Assyria</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>the
departing of the sceptre from Egypt</hi> bespeak its
further abolition.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And he shall cause affliction to pass over the
sea, and shall smite the waves of the sea: and all
the deeps of the river shall dry up: and the pride
of Assyria shall be brought down; and the sceptre
of Egypt shall depart away.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Surely these expressions announce some
greater changes than would result from the
mere emigration from these countries of a race,
poor, afflicted, and despised, as the Jews long
have been. And small indeed is the likelihood
that the literal subjugation of all these
<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>
countries by that race, can be here intended.
The following verse points out a far more probable
and consistent solution of the problem,
in the overthrow of their idolatry, and the
turning of all these nations to the worship of
the one true God.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I will strengthen them in the Lord, and
they shall walk up and down in his name, saith the
Lord.</hi>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Notes To Chapter IX.</head>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 1. :    </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 1. :    </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>So the Lord shall make bright clouds, and give them
showers of rain.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The Hebrew here may be rendered (see Lowth and Parkhurst)
<hi rend='italic'>lightning</hi> instead of <hi rend='italic'>bright clouds</hi>,
and the connexion
with rain will then be much more obvious; especially with
<emph>heavy</emph> rain, as the Hebrew word literally signifies, which usually
follow lightning. The construction will then be as proposed
in the text.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>So the Lord causing lightning, shall bring heavy rain, &amp;c.</hi>
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 3.       <lb/>
       :  </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 3. :         </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Mine anger was kindled against the shepherds, and I punished
the goats, for the Lord, &amp;c.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The apparently indiscriminate use of the past and future
tenses, in scriptural and prophetic language, has perplexed the
<pb n='094'/><anchor id='Pg094'/>
best Hebrew scholars. On the conversive power of the ,
Granville Sharpe's is perhaps the best treatise. In the present
case, unless the  retain that power when disjoined from the verb,
there is no reason for rendering the future  (or ) as a perfect,
or, <hi rend='italic'>I punished</hi>, instead of
<hi rend='italic'>I will punish</hi>. And, as Mr. Lowth
observes, the  (or ) which follows would be more properly rendered
<hi rend='italic'>But</hi> than <hi rend='italic'>For</hi>,
and it will then be&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>mine anger is kindled
against the shepherds, and I will punish the goats; But the
Lord of Hosts</hi>, &amp;c. The shepherds and the goats both signify
leaders of the flock.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 4.       <lb/>
       :    </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 4. :      
           </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Out of him came forth the corner, out of him the nail, out
of him the battle bow, out of him every oppressor together.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The words <hi rend='italic'>corner</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>nail</hi>,
and <hi rend='italic'>oppressor</hi>, must be rather perplexing
to the English reader, nor can the Hebrew scholar be
certain of the precise meaning of each, though their general
import is obvious enough. Thus  (or ) <hi rend='italic'>corner</hi>,
signifies in the root to <hi rend='italic'>turn</hi>, and as the
<hi rend='italic'>corner stone</hi> is a guide to the builder
in laying the others, it comes to signify a guide or leader. So
 (or ), <hi rend='italic'>a nail</hi>, signifies
one on whom others depend. And  (or ),
<hi rend='italic'>an oppressor</hi>, like the Greek
, signifies generally, <hi rend='italic'>a
prince</hi>, as well as a <hi rend='italic'>tyrant</hi>. Thus these terms are each of them
equivalent to a <hi rend='italic'>chief</hi> or <hi rend='italic'>leader</hi>.
</p>

<p>
The verb  (or ), which follows, may be either past or future,
but the latter accords best with the context, as in the proposed
translation. <hi rend='italic'>Out of him shall come forth the corner-stone,
<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>
out of him the nail, out of him the battle bow, out of him
every leader together.</hi>
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 8.  .&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>I will hiss for them.</hi></p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 8.  .&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>I will hiss for them.</hi></p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
The word <hi rend='italic'>hiss</hi>, does not to the English reader convey the
correct meaning here. In many parts of Europe, and, probably,
in some of Asia, the common made of call is by a shrill
sound, very different from either a hiss or a whistle. In some
countries it is effected by pressing the tongue against the
teeth with the lips open, and sounding the letters&mdash;tsz. In
others, it is usual to begin with the lips compressed, and without
closing the teeth, thus making the sound of the letters
psh&mdash;but in both, the sibilant sound predominates, and is heard
to a considerable distance, while its peculiarity instantly attracts
attention from all that are within hearing; and this is no
doubt the sense of the term, as here used. The Hebrew
closely resembles, and probably gives the etymology of the
English word, <hi rend='italic'>shriek</hi>. (See Parkhurst.)
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 11. :     </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 11. :     </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And he shall pass through the sea with affliction, and shall
smite the waves of the sea.</hi>
</p>

<p>
This mode of rendering gives a turn to the sense of the passage,
which is wholly uncalled for, if not unwarranted by the
original: which would be more literally translated: <hi rend='italic'>And affliction
shall come over the sea</hi>, &amp;c. But the Jew's mode of
rendering is equally correct, and better accords with the context,
thus: <hi rend='italic'>He shall cause trouble to pass in the sea, and
shall smite the waves of the sea.</hi> The latter expression amplifying
and explaining the former.
</p>

<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>

<p>
What is meant by the expressions, the sea, the isles, and
the land, is a point of no small importance. In prophetic language,
the sea and the isles always signify the western Gentiles,
or European nations; while the land signifies Palestine,
or the Jewish nation. The Hebrew word  (or ) means either the
sea or the west. As the sea extends along the whole western
coast of Syria, sea and west came to be used synonymously.
And as the European nations lay beyond the sea they obtained
the name of the isles, or the isles of the Gentiles, as they are
called in Gen. x. 5. Mr. Lowth observes, on Isa. xi. 11.
<q>The islands, in the prophetic style, seem particularly to denote
the western parts of the world, or the European nations;
the west being often called the sea in the Scripture language.</q>
</p>

<p>
Thus, <q><hi rend='italic'>causing affliction, or trouble, to come over the sea</hi>,</q>
and <q><hi rend='italic'>smiting the waves of it</hi>,</q> signify, as the Jew rightly
explains, to cause confusion and dismay among the Gentile nations
of the west.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 11. :   </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 11. :   </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And all the deeps of the river shall dry up.</hi>
</p>

<p>
That rivers are meant, in prophetic language, to represent the
people residing on their borders, appears in various passages.
See Isa, viii. 7. <q><hi rend='italic'>Now, therefore, behold the Lord bringeth
up upon them the waters of the river strong and many, even
the king of Assyria and all his glory.</hi></q> In like manner, the
drying up of the Euphrates, is spoken of under the sixth vial
in the Revelations, in allusion to the nations bordering upon
that river.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Rabbi's Reply,
And The
Author's Remarks Upon It.
Chapter X.</head>

<p>
Contending, as the Jew does, that no part
of the prophecy relating to the Messiah's
kingdom, has yet been accomplished, he
cannot reasonably be expected to offer a
particular interpretation of what, according to
his view, is still unfulfilled. And, accordingly,
his remarks on this chapter are restricted to
an occasional correction of the received
translation, and a few short explanatory
notes; while his reply to my exposition, if
reply it can be called, may be comprised in
one short sentence, namely, that he considers
<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>
the whole unaccomplished, and rejects altogether
the spiritual exposition, admitting
none but the literal.
</p>

<p>
In answer to this, I have to observe, that
the literal acceptation, has already, in some
instances, been shewn to be impossible; and
will, hereafter, be so in many more; while the
figurative exposition offered, is in perfect
accordance with the style and language of
prophecy in general, and is uniform and consistent
throughout.
</p>

<p>
As I fully acquiesce in the Rabbi's corrections,
and in the only instance where we
differ, have adopted his view in preference to
my own, it is wholly unnecessary to offer
his translation at length; but an objection
which he makes to my exposition of verses
3rd and 4th of the last chapter, I feel called
upon to notice.
</p>

<p>
In those verses, I adopted the view of
Dr. Blayney, that the destruction <hi rend='italic'>by fire</hi>,
there denounced, applies to Sidon rather than
to Tyre.
</p>

<p>
The common version, <q><hi rend='italic'>For Tyre has built
herself a fortress</hi>,</q> being rendered by him, <q><hi rend='italic'>For
she</hi> (Sidon) <hi rend='italic'>has built herself a fortress, Tyre</hi>;</q>
<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>
the Sidonians being thus made the immediate
object of denunciation, who are allowed to
have been the builders of Tyre, which was
thence called the daughter of Sidon.
</p>

<p>
Now the Jew's objection is founded upon
collateral prophecies, in which the burden
cannot, as here, be shifted from Tyre to Sidon,
the former being distinctly named in these;
and in some, the precise mode of destruction
specified, namely, by fire: Thus, in Amos i.
10, <q><hi rend='italic'>I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyrus,
which shall devour the palaces thereof:</hi></q> see also
Isa. xxiii., in which the whole burden is expressly
on Tyre; and again, Ezek. xxvii. 32,
<q><hi rend='italic'>and in their wailing, they shall take up a lamentation
for thee, and lament over thee, saying, What
city is like Tyrus, like the destroyed in the midst of
the sea?</hi></q>
</p>

<p>
These, and similar passages, would, no
doubt, be fatal to the exposition of Dr.
Blayney, could they be shewn to foretel one
and the same event; but against this, there
are, what appear to me, conclusive objections.
Two of these prophets not only wrote long
before the time of Zechariah, but before the
destruction of Old Tyre by Nebuchadnezzar,
<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>
which was therefore most likely to be the
object of their predictions, and not New Tyre,
which, at that time was not in existence, being
built after Old Tyre was demolished; this
then appears conclusive against the objection
drawn from what occurs in Amos and Isaiah.
With regard to Ezekiel, the case is somewhat
different, and the answer must rest on other
grounds.
</p>

<p>
Ezekiel did write much nearer to the time
in question, and commentators appear undecided
whether some of his predictions refer to
the destruction of Old or New Tyre, or to
both; for if he uttered this prophecy before
the siege of Old Tyre by Nebuchadnezzar,
which can hardly admit of doubt, when he
says, chap. xxvi. 7, <q>Behold I will bring upon
Tyrus, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon;</q>
still the expression of <q><hi rend='italic'>the destroyed in the midst
of the sea</hi>,</q> does seem peculiarly applicable to
the insular situation of New Tyre. But if it
be granted that the siege of this latter, by
Alexander, be intimated in that remarkable
expression; yet Ezekiel no where, that I can
find, specifies <hi rend='italic'>fire</hi> as the peculiar agent of destruction;
therefore, it cannot be inferred
<pb n='101'/><anchor id='Pg101'/>
from any thing he says, that in Zechariah's
prophecy, which appears to be directed
against both Tyre and Sidon, this particular
mode of destruction may not apply to Sidon,
as the text certainly warrants that interpretation.
Thus I see no reason to relinquish Dr.
Blayney's view, which I should give up with
the more reluctance, as I have so rarely been
able to go along with that learned commentator;
while this exposition appeared to me a
very happy solution of a difficulty presented
by the received translation.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='102'/><anchor id='Pg102'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Zechariah
On The
Messiah's Kingdom.
Interpretation: Chapter XI.</head>

<p>
It was before stated, that we should find in
its proper place, due notice taken of the pride
and worldly-mindedness which led the Jews
to reject the Messiah, as he offered no temporal
advantages; and of their forfeiting
thereby all claim to the blessings which his
kingdom was calculated to afford. We are
now come to that place. The introduction to
this chapter announces the frustration of their
hopes of worldly greatness built upon the promised
Messiah; and distinctly states what
portion of their nation would be blinded by
<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>
such motives, and what portion would be
exempt from them. The rulers, the rich, and
the great are declared to be those who would
mislead the flock; while the poor and the
humble are stated to be those who would
recognise the hand of God in his works, and
perceive that this was the word of the Lord.
</p>

<p>
At the time of Christ's coming, it is unquestionable,
that a very general expectation
prevailed among the Jews, that the period for
their Messiah's appearance was arrived; but
so remote was the character of Jesus from
what they expected in their prince, and so
different were the advantages he offered from
what they had hoped to obtain, that the majority
of the people willingly yielded to the
persuasion of their interested rulers, that he
was not the promised Messiah; and thus the
misguided flock for the most part entered into
the views of their priests and rulers, and
rejected Christ.
</p>

<p>
The motives for this rejection are manifest
even to this day, in the backwardness of Israel
to relinquish the hopes of a temporal Messiah,
and in their blindness to the benefits offered
them by a spiritual one; although the consequence
<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>
has hitherto been to them the loss of
even the temporal advantages they previously
enjoyed, instead of the attainment of others
which they expected. Small, however, in the
Christian's estimation, are these, in comparison
with their loss, in a spiritual point of view,
or their loss of the especial favour of Heaven;
which from that time has not only withheld
from them any further revelations, but, as we
conceive, has even blinded them to the true
spiritual import of those previously vouchsafed.
Thus, in whatever light we view it, whether
spiritually or politically, the humiliation of
Israel from that time to the present, has been
abundantly manifest; as declared in the prophecy,
under the metaphor of the fall of the
loftiest trees, the pride of the forest.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Open thy doors, O Lebanon! that the fire may
devour thy cedars. Howl, fir-tree, for the cedar is
fallen, because the mighty is spoiled. Howl, O ye
oaks of Bashan, for the forest of the vintage is
come down. There is a voice of the howling of the
shepherds, for their glory is spoiled. A voice of
the roaring of young lions, for the pride of Jordan
is spoiled.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='105'/><anchor id='Pg105'/>

<p>
This language is highly figurative, no doubt;
yet is it interspersed with expressions, which
almost preclude the possibility of its misapplication;
for <hi rend='italic'>the cedars of Lebanon</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>the
oaks of Bashan</hi>, are next, by a change of metaphor,
called, <hi rend='italic'>the shepherds of the flock</hi>; and soon
after, dropping the metaphor entirely, it appears
that they are the rich and the great,
who sacrifice their flock to avarice and ambition.
Their hopes, however, were frustrated,
in the appearance of a spiritual, instead of a
temporal prince, and an exultation over their
disappointed ambition forms the exordium to
this chapter, which may be explained as
follows:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
Literally, the shepherds are supposed to howl
for the loss of their rich pastures on mount
Carmel, the forest of the vintage; and the
lions to roar for the loss of their covert, the
thickets on the banks of Jordan, the pride of
the river, which, with other trees, are doomed
to destruction; but the figurative meaning is,
that the priests and rulers of Israel should be
disappointed of their hopes of worldly greatness
at the Messiah's coming, and be deprived,
<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>
under the new dispensation, of their power and
influence.
</p>

<p>
The lamentation over their frustrated hopes,
is next coupled with expressions of compassion
for their misguided flock, whom they had
doomed to the slaughter; that is, by depriving
them of <emph>the life which is in Christ</emph>. This flock,
the prophet is commanded to feed.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Thus saith the Lord my God. Feed the flock
of the slaughter, whose possessors slay them, and
hold themselves not guilty. And they that sell
them say, Blessed be the Lord for I am rich.
And their own shepherds pity them not.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Avarice is thus foreshewn to be the vice
which would lead the priests to reject Christ;
the sending of whom is next declared to be
the last act of Divine interposition in behalf
of Israel; those who reject him being thenceforward
left to themselves.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>For I will no more pity the inhabitants of the
land, saith the Lord, but, lo! I will deliver the men
every one into his neighbour's hand, and into the
hand of his shepherd, and they shall smite the land,
and out of their hand I will not deliver them.</hi>
</p>

<p>
But while further interposition is thus
denied to those who reject Christ, being the
<pb n='107'/><anchor id='Pg107'/>
rich and the great; spiritual food is expressly
promised to those who receive him, who were
the poor and the meek.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>But I will feed the flock of the slaughter,
even you, O poor of the flock.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The food here promised to those who are
willing to receive it, cannot be any other than
spiritual food; that is, the knowledge to discern
truth from falsehood, and the grace to
make a proper election between right and
wrong. To the poor, this was given, of whom
Christ declared that <q><hi rend='italic'>Theirs was the kingdom
of Heaven</hi>:</q> to the rich it was not given, of
whom he declared, <q><hi rend='italic'>That it was easier for a
camel to pass through the eye of a needle</hi>,</q> than
for them to enter his kingdom.
</p>

<p>
We now come to the events to which this
introductory matter is intended to lead us;
and to render the prophetic annunciation the
more impressive, it is typically represented by
actions, as well as expressed by words. This
is the most important part of the prophecy;
that on which it may be said that the whole
interpretation hinges. And yet it is here that
the Christian is at fault, and that the Jew expects
a certain triumph: nor without reason,
<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>
when our ablest commentators disagree, or
even acknowledge the difficulties to be insurmountable.
Whether they are removed by
the proposed exposition, the reader must decide;
and to enable him to do so, we shall
state them as briefly as possible.
</p>

<p>
The events alluded to will, with the Christian,
scarcely admit of doubt, for the passage
before us is cited in the Gospel of Matthew,
though by some error, it is there ascribed to
Jeremiah instead of Zechariah. But were the
citation in question even supposed to be a
marginal note, which had found its way
into the text in transcribing, still the purport
of the prophecy would be not the less
manifest, for the connection of this with the
context, and the unity of the whole, sufficiently
declare the subject.
</p>

<p>
The events foreshewn, are the death of
Christ; the dissolution of the old, and the
founding of the new covenant; the rejection
of this latter by the great body of the Jewish
nation, and their immediate forfeiture of the
benefits it affords; with other circumstances
attending these events, such as the betrayal
of Christ for thirty pieces of silver; the
<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>
employment of this money in the purchase of
the potter's field; the separation of the Jews,
who rejected Christ, from those who received
him; and the evils entailed upon those who,
having rejected the true, followed after false
Messiahs. These are the circumstances
shadowed forth in the prophecy; but to give a
consistent explanation of every part of it, and
to shew the exact adaptation of the events to
the prediction, constitute the difficulty.
</p>

<p>
The typical actions of the prophet, consist
in his taking two staves, or crooks; first affixing
to each of them a significant denomination,
and then breaking them in succession;
accompanying this action with explanations,
declaratory of the purport of his doing so.
Yet is the whole highly mystical, and in parts
so obscure, that Dr. Blayney acknowledges
he cannot solve these difficulties; an avowal
that would have been rendered unnecessary,
had his predecessor Lowth been more successful.
Their failure seems chiefly to have
arisen from their misconceiving, in the first
place, whom the prophet here personates in
the character of the shepherd; and, in the
next, what the staves are intended to represent;
<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>
for the general purport of the whole, is
rightly understood by both to be an allusion
to the death of Christ, and the completion of
his mission. Accordingly, Lowth supposes
the shepherd to personate the Messiah, as the
shepherd of his flock. But the Messiah is
throughout the person spoken of, rather than
the speaker, as will presently appear. Blayney
also considers the prophet as a type of
the Messiah; but supposes him sometimes to
speak in his own name, as being himself the
shepherd. Not to dwell on the want of consistency
in this change of character, its
avowed inadequacy to furnish the solution
required, is alone a sufficient refutation of it.
</p>

<p>
That the prophet is the actual speaker is
clear, but he speaks in the name of the Almighty,
as is distinctly declared three times
at least in the present chapter. The great
Shepherd is then no other than God himself;
and all mankind are his flock. Who are the
staves, or crooks, we have next to inquire.
</p>

<p>
The staff, or crook, is the shepherd's implement,
with which he tends his flock, protecting
them on the one hand, or correcting
them on the other. Hence the two names
<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>
adapted to the two-fold office, which might be
rendered Pleasure and Pain, instead of
Beauty and Bands; but there is no occasion
to alter the translation, which is equally
literal, and equally appropriate as it stands.
It is, perhaps, worthy of note, that two staves
were once in use for these different purposes.
What are these staves then intended to represent?
In a word, God being the Shepherd,
and all mankind his flock, the staves appear
to be typical of <emph>Christ</emph> and <emph>Israel</emph>; these being
the agents employed, the great instruments in
the hands of God, in accomplishing the work
of man's redemption, from the darkness of
idolatry to the light of true religion. One
staff being <emph>Israel</emph>, with whom was founded the
Old Covenant, the express object of which
was the abolition of idolatry; a covenant
which is continually called the <q><hi rend='italic'>bondage of the
law</hi>;</q> and the other staff, <emph>Christ</emph>, the founder
of the New Covenant, called <q><hi rend='italic'>the beauty of
holiness</hi></q> who declared that his yoke was
easy, or pleasant; thus the name will be
equally appropriate, whichever translation is
adopted.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I took unto me two staves, the one I called
<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>
Beauty, and the other I called Bands, and I fed
the flock.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The parallelism between these two staves
strikingly appears in the circumstance that
the most remarkable prophecies, as the liiid.
chapter of Isaiah, which the Christian conceives
to be exactly fulfilled in the person and
character of Christ, the Jew imagines to accord
as perfectly with the circumstances and
condition of the house of Israel. May we
not suppose them to be designedly applicable
to both? instrumental alike to the
same great purpose, man's redemption from
idolatry.
</p>

<p>
One of the earliest acts of Christ, who,
however, did every thing in the name of the
Father, was his exposing the unfitness of the
Jewish leaders, who were the priests, the
scribes, and the elders, to be the spiritual
guides of the flock. Their selfishness and
hypocrisy he unsparingly denounced, as rendering
them unfit for such an office; of which
they were consequently deprived under the
new dispensation. Such appears to be the
purport of the following verse, as ably expounded
by Lowth.
</p>

<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Three shepherds also I cut off in one month,
and my soul loathed them, and their soul also
abhorred me.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>One month</hi>, is an indefinite expression for a
short time, as if the prophet had said, <hi rend='italic'>at once</hi>.
When the people had been duly warned
against these treacherous guides; those who
chose to disregard that warning, had no
reason to complain, if it pleased Heaven to
leave them to their fate, as is next declared.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Then said I, I will not feed you; that that
dieth, let it die, and that that is to be cut off, let it
be cut off; and let the rest eat every one the flesh
of another.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The prophet next foreshews, by typical
actions, accompanied by explanations declaratory
of their purport, the death of Christ, and
the dissolution of the Old Covenant.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I took my staff, even Beauty, and cut it
asunder; that I might break my Covenant, which
I made with all the people.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The Covenant with Moses promised protection
against all nations, while Israel remained
obedient. Israel disobeyed and the
Covenant was broken. The Covenant with
Abraham promised blessing to all nations
<pb n='114'/><anchor id='Pg114'/>
through his seed. The Gospel of Christ was
that blessing; refused by the Jews, and consequently
given to the Gentiles; for a remnant
only of Israel received the Gospel, and
those were the poor of the flock.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And it was broken in that day, and so the poor
of the flock that waited upon me, knew that it was
the word of the Lord.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>The poor had the Gospel preached unto
them,</q> and received it with gratitude; but the
ingratitude of their leaders towards the Great
Shepherd, for the care he had so long taken
of them; and the small estimation in which
they held a spiritual Messiah, are aptly foreshewn
by the prophet, in the name of the
Great Shepherd, claiming his reward at their
hands, and their offering the precise sum
which was given for Christ, thirty pieces of
silver.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I said, If ye think good give me my wages,
and if not, forbear; so they weighed me for my
reward, thirty pieces of silver.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The way in which this money was actually
bestowed, is next foreshewn, by the Shepherd's
rejecting it scornfully, and desiring it
may be given to the potter.
</p>

<pb n='115'/><anchor id='Pg115'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the Lord said unto me, cast it to the potter;
a goodly price that I was valued at by them: so I
took the thirty pieces of silver, and cast them to the
potter in the house of the Lord.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The price they actually gave for Christ,
aptly denotes the value they put upon God's
goodness in sending him, the Great Shepherd's
proffered remuneration. The house of
the Lord, or the temple, is the supposed scene
of action, shewing the spiritual import of the
transaction. The money being given to the
potter, foreshews how it would be actually employed,
to wit, in the purchase of the potter's
field; in fact, it was given to the potter. If it
be asked what the potter had to do in the
temple? the answer is, he went there, as
others did, to pray. His being there does not,
as some suppose, imply that he was at work
there.
</p>

<p>
Those who rejected and crucified Christ,
are thenceforward rejected from being God's
chosen people. As Christ was cut off from
natural life, so Israel was cut off from <hi rend='italic'>the life
in Christ</hi> as next intimated.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Then I cut asunder my other staff, even Bands,
<pb n='116'/><anchor id='Pg116'/>
that I might break the brotherhood between Judah
and Israel.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The house of Jacob was from this time
divided into Christians and Jews, who appear
to be distinguished in the prophecy under the
types of Judah and Israel; the former denoting
those who received, and the latter
those who rejected Christ. This distinction
appears to be maintained till their promised
re-union in the New Jerusalem.
</p>

<p>
The spiritual evils entailed on those who
reject the true Messiah, to follow after false
teachers, are next foreshewn.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the Lord said unto me, Take unto thee yet
the instruments of a foolish shepherd, for I will
raise up a Shepherd in the land, which shall not
visit those that be cut of, neither shall seek the
young, nor heal that that is broken, nor feed that
that standeth still, but he shall eat the flesh of the
fat, and tear their hoofs asunder.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Israel is thus left to the mercy of these false
shepherds, while spiritual blindness, infatuation,
and utter helplessness, are the awful
judgments denounced against the selfish and
worldly-minded priesthood, who thus mislead
and sacrifice their flock.
</p>

<pb n='117'/><anchor id='Pg117'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Woe to the idol shepherd, that leaveth the flock!
the sword shall be upon his arm, and upon his
right eye; his arm shall be clean dried up, and
his right eye shall be utterly darkened.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The spiritual blindness which has since
darkened the mental vision of Israel, appears
to the Christian to be here distinctly foretold.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='118'/><anchor id='Pg118'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Notes To Chapter XI.</head>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Ver. 1.   &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Open thy doors, O Lebanon, &amp;c.</hi></p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Ver. 1.   &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Open thy doors, O Lebanon, &amp;c.</hi></p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
That Jewish writers have understood <q><hi rend='italic'>the forest</hi>,</q>
as metaphorically representing Jerusalem with her stately buildings,
and <q><hi rend='italic'>Lebanon</hi>,</q> as the temple itself, appears from the
following note of Mr. Lowth, on this passage.
</p>

<p>
<q>By Lebanon, most interpreters understand the temple,
whose stately buildings resemble the tall cedars of that forest.
Thus the word is commonly understood,</q> Hab. ii. 17.
</p>

<p>
There is a remarkable story mentioned in the Jewish writers
to this purpose. Some time before the destruction of the
temple, the doors of it opened of their own accord; a circumstance
mentioned by Josephus, Bell. Jud. 1. 7. c. 12. Then
R. Johanan, a disciple of R. Hillel, directing his speech to the
temple said, <hi rend='italic'>I know thy destruction is at hand, according to
the prophecy of Zechariah</hi>, Open thy doors, O Lebanon, &amp;c.
</p>

<p>
The passage in Josephus in my edition is, lib. 6, cap. 5,
<pb n='119'/><anchor id='Pg119'/>
and a very remarkable one it is, containing many other portents
preceding the destruction of the temple, besides the spontaneous
opening of these massive doors, which were so ponderous
as to require twenty men to open and shut them.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Ver. 2.    &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>For the forest of the
vintage is come down.</hi></p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Ver. 2.    &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>For the forest of the
vintage is come down.</hi></p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
By the forest of the vintage, is understood Mount Carmel,
which was partly covered with vineyards and rich pastures, for
the loss of which the shepherds are said to howl, in the following
verse. The shepherds metaphorically designate the leaders
of the people; the different trees of the forest denoting the
different classes and orders of men.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Ver. 3.    &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>For the pride of Jordan
is spoiled.</hi></p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Ver. 3.    &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>For the pride of Jordan
is spoiled.</hi></p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
By the pride of Jordan is to be understood, as Dr. Blayney
observes, the woods and thickets on the banks of that river.
These served as covert for lions, which often infested the country
when driven from them by the rising of the river. These
trees being along with others doomed to destruction, the lions
roar for the loss of their shelter, as the shepherds howl for the
loss of their rich pastures. The lions denote metaphorically
the great and powerful among the people. Their disposition
to prey upon and devour the flock, well accords with the
character afterwards given to the shepherds also, and shews the
consistency of the metaphorical language.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Ver. 6.       &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>For
I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land, &amp;c.</hi></p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Ver. 6.       &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>For
I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land, &amp;c.</hi></p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
The distinction between <hi rend='italic'>the sea</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>the land</hi>, has been
already pointed out in the note to ver. 11, of the last chapter,
<pb n='120'/><anchor id='Pg120'/>
and is here too manifest to admit of doubt. Lebanon, Bashan,
Carmel, and Jordan, clearly shew what land is here spoken of,
which can be no other than Palestine.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Ver. 10.   &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>That I might break my
covenant, &amp;c.</hi></p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Ver. 10.   &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>That I might break my
covenant, &amp;c.</hi></p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
It might be supposed here that the two staves were typical of
the two covenants; the Old and the New. But how is the
parallelism then to be supported? If the breaking of one staff
denotes the dissolving of the Old Covenant; what then is denoted
by the breaking of the other staff? for the New Covenant
was not also dissolved. By the proposed solution, the parallelism
is maintained; Christ and Israel so exactly accord, that
the prophecies seem, in many points, alike applicable to either.
Both were instrumental to the great work of redeeming
mankind from idolatry, and both were cut of; Christ from
natural life; Israel from the life which is <emph>in Christ</emph>. To
understand clearly the cutting of the staves, the most intricate
subject perhaps in the whole prophecy, the reader has to keep
in view two distinct points of consideration, the confounding of
which will involve him in no little perplexity; these are, first
the symbolical meaning, or the event foreshewn by the act of
cutting; and secondly, the end or purport of the cutting; for
along with the act, the prophet also declares the motive for the
act, which must not be confounded with the act itself, being
the effect or consequence that followed that act. Thus he
says&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>And I took my staff Beauty and cut it asunder, that I
might break my covenant, which I had made with all the
people.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>

<p>
Now the cutting of the first staff, Beauty, signifies or foreshews
the death of Christ, or the cutting off of the Messiah.
This is the symbolical meaning of the act. But the end or
consequence of that act, was the cessation of the covenant of
protection to Israel. <q>The covenant,</q> as it may be rendered,
<q>concerning all the people.</q> From that time, the Jews ceased
to be under the especial care and protection of Heaven; no
more interpositions were manifested in their behalf; no prophet
from that time appeared in Israel; these blessings being confined
to the Jews who received Christ, or transferred to the
Gentiles.
</p>

<p>
Next follows the cutting asunder of the second staff, Bands;
and this in fact appears to be precisely the end or consequence
of the cutting of the first staff; for the cutting of this staff
symbolically foreshews the rejection of Israel, or the cessation
of the Covenant of protection. Such appears to be the event
symbolized by cutting the staff, Bands. But the effect or consequence
of that event, or of the rejection of Israel, was as
declared in the prophecy, a breach in the brotherhood, between
Judah and Israel, or between the Jews who received and those
who rejected Christ; in short, between Christian and Jew,
who are here supposed to be symbolised by Judah and Israel.
This division or breach was not the event foreshewn by the
cutting of the staff, but the end or consequence of that act;
and this distinction requires to be kept clearly in view.
</p>

<p>
It seems immaterial whether the symbolical meaning of cutting
asunder the second staff, Bands, be expressed by the rejection
of Israel, the breaking of the covenant of protection, or
the abrogation of the law of Moses; for all these events are
<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>
so closely connected, or so nearly identical, as scarcely to
admit of their being disjoined or distinguished.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Ver. 12.  &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Give me my price.</hi></p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Ver. 12.  &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Give me my price.</hi></p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
From the failure of former commentators, in shewing how
this can apply to the betrayal of Christ, when the word  (or ) is
rendered, as it should be, <hi rend='italic'>wages</hi> or
<hi rend='italic'>reward</hi>, instead of <hi rend='italic'>price</hi>,
the Jew seems to have been so confident of victory on this
point, that on referring to his exposition which follows, it will
appear that he must have written it without having read mine,
to which it is any thing but an answer, as I have expounded
the passage precisely upon his own mode of rendering. The
correctness of this translation was acquiesced in by Dr. Blaney,
who admitted the difficulty it involved, and candidly acknowledged
his inability to solve it; nor while Christ is considered
the speaker, as he and Lowth suppose, does the removal of it
appear practicable. But when God himself is understood to
be the Shepherd, and Christ, the staff Beauty, it appears no
longer insurmountable.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Ver. 13.      <lb/>
       :  </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Ver. 13. :        </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I took the thirty pieces of silver and cast them to the
potter in the house of the Lord.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The word  (or ), is by the Jew changed into  (or ) the alteration
of a letter being all that is required to substitute <hi rend='italic'>the treasury</hi>,
in the room of <hi rend='italic'>the potter</hi>. But he cannot deny, that the
word means potter in the original, and the Christian will find
no occasion to alter it, to make sense of the passage. The
objection, that the potter could not be at work in the temple,
<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>
which was urged by the Jew, has been answered in the exposition.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Ver. 17.   &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Woe to the idol shepherd.</hi></p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Ver. 17.   &mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Woe to the idol shepherd.</hi></p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
The <hi rend='italic'>idol</hi> might be rendered, as Mr. Lowth observes,
<hi rend='italic'>worthless</hi>, or of no value, as it is, Job xiii. 4, and so the Jew
renders it. Though a shepherd, in the singular number, is
here spoken of, yet a succession of such shepherds is clearly to
be understood; and it is probable that the chiefs and rulers of
Israel are intended here, as well as the false Messiahs who have
from time to time arisen, and partially misled the people,
being alike false guides, who have contributed to the destruction
of the flock. A history of the false Messiahs, amounting to
not less than twenty, who have at different times made their
appearance; with an account of the numbers and destruction of
their infatuated followers, being too long for insertion here,
may be found by the reader in Dr. Jortin's Remarks on Eccles.
Hist.; presenting a lamentable picture of the blindness and
infatuation of this wretched people.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Rabbi's Translation. Chapter XI.</head>

<p>
1. Open thy doors, O Lebanon, that the fire
may devour thy cedars.
</p>

<p>
2. Howl, fir tree; for the cedar is fallen;
because the mighty are spoiled; howl, ye
oaks of Bashan; for the forest of the vintage
is come down.
</p>

<p>
3. There is a voice of the howling of the
shepherds, for their glory is spoiled; a voice
of the roaring of young lions; for the pride of
Jordan is spoiled.
</p>

<p>
4. Thus saith the Lord my God, Feed the
flock of the slaughter.
</p>

<p>
5. Whose possessors slay them, and hold
themselves not guilty, and they that sell them,
say, Blessed be the Lord; for I am rich; and
their own shepherds pity them not.
</p>

<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>

<p>
6. For I will no more pity the inhabitants
of the land, saith the Lord; but, lo! I will
deliver the men, every one into his neighbour's
hand, and into the hand of his king,
and they shall smite the land, and out of their
hand I will not deliver them.
</p>

<p>
7. Yea, I fed the flock of the slaughter,
truly an afflicted flock it was, and I took unto
me two staves; the one I called Pleasant,
and the other I called Painful, and I fed the
flock.
</p>

<p>
8. And when I had cut off three shepherds
in one month; then my soul loathed them,
and their souls also abhorred me.
</p>

<p>
9. Then said I, I will not feed you; that
that dieth, let it die; and that that is missed,
let it be missed; and let the rest eat every one
the flesh of another.
</p>

<p>
10. And I took my staff, the Pleasant, and
cut it asunder, that I might break my
covenant which I had made (for them) with
all the nations.
</p>

<p>
11. And it was broken in that day, and so
the afflicted flock, that waited upon me, knew
that it was the word of the Lord.
</p>

<p>
12. And I said unto them, If ye think good,
<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>
give me my reward; and if not, forbear; and
they weighed for my reward thirty pieces of
silver.
</p>

<p>
13. And the Lord said unto me, Cast it
into the treasury, the magnanimous, the
precious, that I have withdrawn from them;
and I took the thirty pieces of silver, and
cast them into the house of the Lord, into the
treasury.
</p>

<p>
14. Then I cut asunder my other staff, the
Painful, to break the brotherhood between
Judah, and Israel.
</p>

<p>
15. And the Lord said unto me, Take unto
thee, yet the instruments of a foolish shepherd.
</p>

<p>
16. For, lo, I will raise up a shepherd in
the land, who shall not remember those that
are missed, nor seek the young, nor heal the
broken one, nor feed that that stands still,
but he shall eat the flesh of the fat, and tear
their hoofs asunder.
</p>

<p>
17. Woe to the worthless shepherds, who
leave the flock! the sword shall be upon his
arm, and upon his right eye: his arm shall
be quite dried up, and his right eye shall be
utterly darkened.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Rabbi's Exposition. Chapter XI.</head>

<p>
Verse 1. This prophecy Christians cannot
but consider impenetrable, and must be satisfied
to break off a few fragments, which may
serve to cement their religion; for in whatever
manner they expound the import of the
two staves, they must still be incompetent to
link its various parts together, so as to shew
that it refers to what they think it necessarily
must, namely, the selling of the Messiah; an
interpretation which an impartial examiner
must find inconsistent with that passage even
if disjoined from all the rest, since there,
wages, or reward (not price) is spoken of;
<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>
this being desired, or required of Israel, while
with him who was sold it was quite the reverse;
so far was he from wishing to be betrayed,
that he tried and prayed to escape it.
The Jew, however, considering the tenour of
the whole, contends that this was no more
than what had been already fulfilled at the
time when it was delivered, the allusion here
being historical and not prophetic.
</p>

<p>
It commences with predicting to other
nations (who are compared to fir, and oak
trees,) destruction inevitable, since the shepherds
of Judah also (who are compared to the
lions by the Jordan, to the vine and the
cedar,) howl for having been spoiled of their
glory. The prophet then goes on, in calling
to the minds of his brethren the causes that
brought them so low from their former exalted
station, in order that this may serve them as
a warning no more to deviate from the way in
which they were instructed to walk: he also
reminds them with what particular and providential
care they had been continually led
on by their God, in one or other of the different
ways stated, the pleasant, or the painful,
as by a tender shepherd, whose sole
<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>
intent is to lead his flock to rich pastures,
and good watering places. In this manner
did God tend his flock, Israel, to accomplish
their happiness, indulging them when obedient
to his will, but chastising them, when
otherwise, as an indulgent father would his
children, in order to reclaim them. And when
we consider the circumstances and condition
of our fathers during the first temple, we may
easily trace out both the times when they
enjoyed uninterrupted peace and comfort,
and those, when they were exposed to troubles
and afflictions, which God in his wisdom saw
fit to visit upon them. To these does the
prophet refer, representing them by this beautiful
metaphor of the two staves.
</p>

<p>
Ver. 5. The cruel shepherds denote the
tyrants into whose hands Israel was delivered,
who disdained to nourish that poor flock, but
sold some to slavery, and gave up others to be
slaughtered.
</p>

<p>
Ver. 6. And such as escaped the fury of
their own kings were ravaged by their conquerors.
</p>

<p>
Ver. 7. <hi rend='italic'>I fed the flock.</hi>&mdash;i. e. Since I have
chosen them to me out of Egypt.
</p>

<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>

<p>
Ver. 8. <hi rend='italic'>When I had cut off three shepherds.</hi>&mdash;The
number three as well as seven is well
known to be made use of in Scripture, instead
of an indefinite number; this apparently
refers to what is related in 2 Kings, ch. x.
v. 32, that in those days the Lord began to be
weary of Israel; it was after the kings of Judah
and Israel were killed, the family of the
one exterminated, and that of the other nearly
so.
</p>

<p>
Ver. 10. <hi rend='italic'>A covenant made for them with all the
nations</hi>; that is, that these nations should not
disturb Israel, nor invade their land, but leave
them to dwell there in safety, as was repeatedly
promised to them. Exod. xxxiv.
24; Lev. xxvi. 5; Deut. xxviii. 10. But when
under the divine displeasure, that covenant
was suspended, and not only the land of the
ten tribes, but also that of Judah was frequently
invaded, and both were harassed by
their enemies.
</p>

<p>
Ver. 12. The reward which God required of
his people means, that for the many blessings
he had conferred on them, they should be
obedient to his commandments. Yet he left
it to their choice, to forbear if disinclined,
<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>
agreeably to the message sent to them by
Ezek. ch. iii. v. 27; and accordingly some few
remained faithful to him, and these answer to
the thirty pieces of silver. Thirty as well as
ten sometimes imply an indefinite number.
See Dan, i. 20; Gen. xxxi. 7. They are
named silver ( (or )) as this originally meant
desirable.
</p>

<p>
Ver. 13. They are to be cast into the treasury&mdash; (or ),
though translated the potter,
stands for  (), the treasury. And again,
    (or    ) is the same as   
(or   )
(Mal. iii. 10), or the storehouse of the Lord,
viz. the temple. The frequent interchange of
the  (or ) letters is well known to the Hebrew
scholar. The temple is here indicated as the
place where the pure ones, separated from the
dross, should fix their eyes on the Most High,
and with prayers appease his wrath, that he
might yet avert the approaching calamities.
 (or ) signifies <hi rend='italic'>I
have withdrawn</hi>, not <hi rend='italic'>I was
prized at</hi>. See Proverbs xxv. 17, where it
means <hi rend='italic'>withdraw thy foot</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Ver. 14. <hi rend='italic'>Cut asunder the other staff.</hi> While
the two kings lived in peace and harmony,
the one was corrupted by the wickedness of
<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>
the other, and therefore the chastening rod
was applied for the purpose of breaking their
brotherhood; but that staff was dispensed
with, when by the dissolution of one of these
kings, the cause for it ceased.
</p>

<p>
Ver. 16. <hi rend='italic'>I will raise up a shepherd, &amp;c.</hi> Judah
has likewise to lament to this day having
been governed by foolish shepherds during
both the first and second temple, who did
neither remember the missed, nor heal the
broken, and instead of feeding them that
stood still, they fed upon them, and tore their
hoofs asunder. Yet as the survivors stand to
this day a living monument of the literal accomplishment
of this prophecy from verse 15,
it serves them as a sure pledge of the fulfilment
of that which follows.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Zechariah
On The
Messiah's Kingdom.
Interpretation: Chapter XII.</head>

<p>
Of the occurrences which succeeded the
crucifixion of Christ, one of the first in order,
as well as importance, was the destruction
of Jerusalem; an event which materially
changed the condition of the Jewish nation,
both as regarded their polity and their religion;
to the full exercise of which the existence
of their temple was indispensable.
It was therefore to be expected that the prediction
of this event would be eagerly sought
for by Christian commentators, in a prophecy
relating to the establishment of the Messiah's
<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>
kingdom, especially by those who chiefly look
to political affairs for its fulfilment.
</p>

<p>
And accordingly this chapter appears to
afford distinct intimation of such an event, as
it opens with the express mention of the siege
of Jerusalem. Yet is it mentioned in a way
not a little embarrassing to the political exposition;
for, instead of the destruction, the
prophecy declares the triumph of Jerusalem;
and, with the exception of one or two ambiguous
expressions at the commencement, this
triumph forms the whole subject of the
chapter. But Jerusalem really was taken
and destroyed, nor have the Jews since been
able to rebuild either their city or their
temple, nor has any thing approaching to a
triumph, in the ordinary acceptation of the
term, occurred to them from that time to the
present. How then shall we explain the
victory and triumph foretold in the prophecy?
</p>

<p>
The solution appears to be this; that the
event here foretold is no political, but a
spiritual siege; namely, the warfare of
worldly feelings against true religion, for this
is the spiritual Jerusalem. The abrogation of
<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>
the law, and the promulgation of the Gospel,
are foreshewn under the types of the Old and
the New Jerusalem; which symbolically
signify the Old and New Covenant, or Judaism
and Christianity, the one abolished and
the other established, in reality at the coming
of Christ, but ostensibly at the destruction of
the city and temple, which is probably on
this account employed symbolically, to represent
the spiritual change.
</p>

<p>
The prophecy, however, does not declare
the destruction of the old Jerusalem, but
merely the repeopling of it, in verse 6; and
in the spiritual sense it was not destroyed,
though merged in the superior splendour and
greatness of the New City; for Christianity
is built on the foundation of Judaism. The
new Jerusalem here spoken of, is then, the
new Covenant, or Christianity, the spiritual
City, the building of which began at this
time, whatever may be the period required for
its completion.
</p>

<p>
In the spiritual sense also must be understood
the triumph of Judah, which was the
triumph of the Gospel; and her salvation,
spoken of in verse 7, which was eternal salvation.
<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>
Her victory was the victory over the
world, which every true Christian has to gain,
but which was first gained by Judah, for the
first Christians were Jews; although the
Gentiles were subsequently admitted into the
Church of Christ, and became the principal
inhabitants of the spiritual Jerusalem, when
deserted, for the most part at least, by its
former inhabitants the Jews. The Gentiles
from this time became Israelites by adoption,
and the distinction between Jew and Gentile
converts, or lineal and adopted Israelites, is
marked in the prophecy, as might be expected.
</p>

<p>
But the time of Israel's spiritual restoration
requires some explanation, being adverted to
in this and the following chapter ten times at
least, with the definite expression of <q><hi rend='italic'>in that
day</hi>:</q> an expression which seems as little to
accord with the time required for a whole
nation or people to change their faith, as with
that which would be requisite for their literal
return from all parts of the world to be
reunited in one city, as the Jews understand
the prophecy. A literal day cannot therefore
be understood; nor yet would the difficulty
<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>
be removed by supposing it to mean a prophetic
day, or a Jewish year of twelve
months, being three hundred and sixty days;
for this period would be alike inadequate to
the event in question.
</p>

<p>
How shall we then understand the expression,
<q><hi rend='italic'>that day</hi>,</q> so often recurring in the
prophecy? The answer appears to be simply
this, that it means <emph>one</emph> day to <emph>each individual</emph>,
but not <emph>the same day</emph> to <emph>all collectively</emph>. As the
earlier Christians did not all embrace Christianity
on one day, so neither have we reason
to expect that the later Christians will do so.
History declares to the contrary, that some of
the house of Israel have been continually
flowing into the Church of Christ in every
succeeding century, from the Apostolic age
to the present time. And as some understand
the Day of Judgment to be to each individual
the day of his death, so to each will the day
of his <q><hi rend='italic'>Redemption</hi>,</q> in Scriptural language,
be the day of his receiving Christ. St. Paul
in the 2 Corinth. vi. 2, says <q><hi rend='italic'>Behold now is the
accepted time, now is the day of Salvation</hi>,</q> and
in the same light must it be viewed in the
passages before us; that is, as one day to
<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>
each individually, not as the same day to all
collectively.
</p>

<p>
The opening of this chapter closely resembles
that of the 9th, and may help to
throw light on those parts of it which appeared
obscure. Both begin by declaring
God's superintendance and control over human
affairs, and both assert his right to the
disposal of events on similar grounds: there
it was alleged, because all creatures belong to
him, <hi rend='italic'>for the Lord's is the eye of man, and all the
tribes of Israel</hi>; and here, because he created
all things.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The burden of the word of the Lord upon Israel,
saith the Lord, which stretcheth forth the heavens,
and layeth the foundations of the earth, and formeth
the spirit of man within him.</hi>
</p>

<p>
There, the burden of the prophecy was laid
on the Gentiles, but the admonition meant for
the benefit of Israel, to whom it was addressed;
here, the burden is upon Israel, but
the admonition expressly intended for all nations,
<q><hi rend='italic'>all the people round about</hi>;</q> and of such
was the new Jerusalem, which is the subject
of this chapter, chiefly composed after the
overthrow of their idolatry and their conversion
<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>
to Christianity. This appears to be the
spiritual warfare here intended, namely, the
successful progress of the Gospel against
Paganism.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Behold, I will make Jerusalem a cup of trembling
unto all the nations round about, and upon
Judah it shall be in the siege against Jerusalem.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Upon Judah is the burden of the prophecy
chiefly imposed, for to Judah was first committed
the task of promulgating the Gospel.
The Apostles, and also the disciples of our
Lord were all Jews, they were the founders of
this city. <q><hi rend='italic'>A cup of trembling</hi>,</q> must not be
here understood to signify an example by
punishment inflicted, but as the Jew renders
it, <q><hi rend='italic'>a cup of astonishment</hi>,</q> or confusion to all
nations; or, as it is next termed, <q><hi rend='italic'>a burden-stone</hi>,</q>
to crush its enemies; and such has
been the Gospel of Christ, as the prophecy
declares.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>In that day, will I make Jerusalem a burden-stone
for all people; all that burden themselves with
it shall be cut in pieces, though all the people of
the earth be gathered together against it.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The people, here spiritually signifies their
false religion, which was to be abolished; and
<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>
Jerusalem is here understood to mean Christianity,
or true religion, which was triumphant.
Confusion is then denounced against its enemies,
while Divine protection and support are
promised to the house of Judah, who received
Christ.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>In that day, saith the Lord, I will smite every
horse with astonishment, and his rider with madness,
but I will open mine eyes upon the house of
Judah, and will smite every horse of the people with
blindness.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The blind rage of the heathen and the infatuated
frenzy with which they strove to extinguish
the light of the Gospel, are here
clearly foreshewn; but the spiritual Jerusalem
resisted all their efforts. And when the lineal
Israelites abandoned their city, its gates were
thrown open to the Gentiles, who entered and
repeopled it, and became thenceforward
<q>Israelites by adoption.</q> The new Jerusalem
being Christianity, its inhabitants must mean
the Christians; and who were they, after the
Jews rejected Christianity, but the Gentile
converts? Accordingly, they are so styled in
the next verse, as contradistinguished from
the first Jewish converts, who are called the
<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>
governors of Judah, being the founders and
builders of the spiritual city.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the governors of Judah shall say in their
hearts, The inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be my
strength, in the Lord of hosts their God.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The fitness of the expression, <hi rend='italic'>Inhabitants of
Jerusalem</hi>, to symbolize the Gentile converts,
further appears in the fact, that the original
inhabitants of the city, who were never expelled,
were Gentiles. <hi rend='italic'>The governors of Judah</hi>
can signify no other than the apostles and
disciples of our Lord, the first teachers of
Christianity, or the founders of the new City.
These, when the Jews were no longer willing
to hear them, turned their attention to the
Gentiles, and directed all their efforts to effect
their conversion. As the strength of a city
lies in its inhabitants, so the hope of strengthening
theirs, from that time, rested in gaining
over the Gentiles: <q><hi rend='italic'>The Governors of Judah
say in their hearts, The inhabitants of Jerusalem
shall be my strength in the Lord of hosts their
God.</hi></q> Does not this mean in the Lord of
hosts <emph>becoming</emph> their God? That is, in his becoming
the God of the Gentiles by their conversion
to Christianity?
</p>

<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>

<p>
The extraordinary success of the apostles
and disciples, in converting the Gentiles and
repeopling the city, is foreshewn in the next
verse.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>In that day will I make the governors of Judah
like an hearth of fire among the wood, and like a
torch of fire in a sheaf, and they shall devour all
the nations round about on the right hand and on
the left, and Jerusalem shall be inhabited again in
her own place, even in Jerusalem.</hi>
</p>

<p>
If the spiritual Jerusalem be Christianity,
it was certainly the Gentiles who repeopled
this city, when the Jews deserted it. But still
it was not deserted by all the Jews, for the
first Christians were Jews, as emphatically
expressed in the next verse.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Lord shall save the tents of Judah first,
that the glory of the house of David, and the glory
of the inhabitants of Jerusalem do not magnify
themselves against Judah.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The salvation of Judah here spoken of must
be salvation through Christ; but if Judah signify
the first Jewish converts to Christianity,
and the inhabitants of Jerusalem mean those
from the gentile nations, who are <hi rend='italic'>the house of
David</hi>, here spoken of, and classed with the
<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>
inhabitants of Jerusalem, as receiving their
salvation subsequently to that of Judah? The
house of David must surely mean those of the
Hebrew nations, who did not at first receive
Christ along with the house of Judah, but subsequently;
or, the prophecy being still prospective,
those who shall hereafter embrace
Christianity must be also included. To this
the Jew may probably answer: How can a
Christian believe that the house of David, the
very house from which Christ came, still remains
unredeemed? I answer, that we are
nowhere assured that all of his own family
believed in him; still less the whole house of
David, of which they were only a branch. To
the fact, whether any of that family be still
left among the unredeemed of Israel, let the
Jew answer. If not, then where is their expected
Messiah to come from? But if there
be such, then have these not yet received the
salvation which is through Christ; and as far
as they are concerned, the words of the prophecy
yet remain to be fulfilled, however it
may have received its fulfilment in regard to
others. When it shall please God to remove
the veil which is before their eyes, and to restore
<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>
the spiritual strength which they have
lost, then will the following words be accomplished
in them also, as it was to Judah in the
apostolic age.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>In that day shall the Lord defend the inhabitants
of Jerusalem, and he that is feeble among
them, at that day shall be as David, and the house
of David shall be as God, as the Angel of the
Lord before them.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The esteem and veneration with which the
primitive Christians, and particularly the
apostles, would be regarded for their purity
and holiness, and for their spiritual strength,
notwithstanding that they were designedly
chosen from the lowest and most illiterate class
of men, is here emphatically foretold. Their
consequent success in preaching the gospel is
next declared; the nations being destroyed,
figuratively signifies their false religion being
overthrown.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the
Lord, that I will seek to destroy all the nations
that come up against Jerusalem.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The next verse, which foretels <hi rend='italic'>the pouring
out of the Spirit</hi>, so closely resembles the
prophecy of Joel, of which St. Peter gave the
<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>
interpretation on the memorable day of Pentecost;
and at the same time, coupled the application
with a reproach to the Jews for
having crucified Christ (Acts ii.), that the
Christian can hardly fail to see that they
refer to the same event, though not here
restricted to that particular day, as appears
from <q><hi rend='italic'>the house of David and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem</hi></q> being mentioned; nor was the gift
of the Spirit confined to the day of Pentecost,
but continued to all on whom the apostles laid
their hands.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I will pour out upon the house of David,
and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit
of grace and of supplication; and they shall look
to me for him whom they pierced, and they shall
mourn for him as one mourneth for his only son;
and be in bitterness for him as one that is in
bitterness for his firstborn.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The most solemn fast almost universally
observed throughout Christendom, in commemoration
of Christ's crucifixion, is manifestly
the event which was here foretold, at
least four centuries before its fulfilment.
The prospect of its receiving a more evident
accomplishment at any future period, seems
<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>
to be rendered hopeless by the enumeration
of the different families that follows, all such
distinctions being now lost among the present
race of Jews.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And in that day there shall be a great mourning
in Jerusalem, as the mourning of Hadadrimmon
in the valley of Megiddon;</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the land shall mourn every family apart,
the family of the house of David apart, and their
wives apart; the family of the house of Nathan
apart, and their wives apart;</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The family of the house of Levi apart, and their
wives apart; the family of the house of Shimei
apart, and their wives apart;</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>All the families that remain, every family apart,
and their wives apart.</hi>
</p>

<p>
If any thing more be intended by this
emphatical repetition of the families mourning
apart, beyond the strong expression of
the depth of their grief, and the sincerity of
their repentance, may it not be to convince
the unbelieving Jews of the hopelessness of a
more literal fulfilment after the loss of their
genealogies?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Notes To Chapter XII.</head>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 2. :      </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 2. :      </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>When they shall be in the siege both against Judah and
against Jerusalem.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Such is the translation in our version, a sense which can in
no way be extorted from the words of the text, as every
Hebraist must be well aware. The Jew, by inserting the relative
<hi rend='italic'>who</hi>, as understood after the word Judah, renders the
passage thus,
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And also upon Judah, who shall be in the siege against
Jerusalem.</hi>
</p>

<p>
This is certainly no violation of the text, as the relative pronoun
is often understood in Hebrew. But still I hold it to be
a rule not to insert a relative unless the sense requires it, and I
see no such necessity here, as either of the preceding nominatives,
namely, <hi rend='italic'>the burden of the prophecy</hi>,
or <hi rend='italic'>the cup of
trembling</hi>, may govern the verb <hi rend='italic'>shall be</hi>, and thus we have,
as I have rendered it, <hi rend='italic'>and also upon Judah it shall be, in the
<pb n='148'/><anchor id='Pg148'/>
siege against Jerusalem</hi>; by which I understand <hi rend='italic'>the burden
shall</hi> be upon Judah also.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 3.      <lb/>
        :</p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 3. :      </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>I will make Jerusalem a burden stone for all people.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Here the Jew may probably ask, How can Jerusalem, in
the spiritual sense, as signifying true religion, become a
burden stone, or a cup of confusion to the heathen? I
answer, in every way. In the first place, by frustrating, as it
did, all their efforts to suppress and extinguish it;&mdash;in the
next place, by its opposing and outraging all their worldly
feelings, condemning their pride, and teaching humility, requiring
them to receive their religion from one whom they despised
as the most degraded of human beings, a crucified malefactor;&mdash;and,
lastly, by stultifying all their previous notions,
enjoining the restraint and control of the passions, instead of
which their religion sanctified their indulgence as an act of devotion.
Thus was Christianity, in every way, a cup of confusion,
and a stumbling-stone to the heathen nations.
</p>

<p>
But against the spiritual exposition of the Old and New Jerusalem,
as symbolizing the Old and New Covenant, the Jew
may, perhaps, further object, that he was never taught to look
for a New Covenant, and that he finds no intimation of it in
the Prophets. This being a question of fact, rather than of
reasoning, we must look to the Scriptures for the answer.
</p>

<p>
Without enumerating the many intimations of the sacrifices
and ceremonies of the Old Covenant, not being <emph>intrinsically</emph>
acceptable to God, but of less estimation than the
<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>
attributes of moral excellence, we find the following direct declarations
of a New Covenant to be established at the Messiah's
coming, who is symbolically styled, <hi rend='italic'>My servant David</hi>.
Thus in Isa. lv. 3, we find, <hi rend='italic'>Incline thine ear and come unto
me; hear and your soul shall live; and I will make an everlasting
covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David.</hi>
Ezekiel also says, chap. xxxiv. 24, <hi rend='italic'>And I the Lord will be
their God, and my servant David a prince among them; I
the Lord have spoken it; and I will make with them a covenant
of peace</hi>, &amp;c. And again in chap. xxxvii. 26, he says,
<hi rend='italic'>Moreover, I will make a covenant of peace with them; it
shall be an everlasting covenant with them; and I will place
them and multiply them, and I will set my sanctuary in the
midst of them for evermore.</hi> But Jeremiah still more expressly
declares the superseding of the Old, and the substitution
of the New Covenant; while he describes the latter in
terms equivalent to those used by Christ himself, <q>The kingdom
of God is within you.</q> Thus Jer. xxxi. 31, <hi rend='italic'>Behold the
days come, saith the Lord, that I will make a New Covenant
with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah. Not
according to the Covenant that I made with their fathers, in
the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the
land of Egypt, which my Covenant they brake, although I
was an husband to them, saith the Lord. But this shall be
the Covenant that I will make with the house of Israel,
After those days, saith the Lord, I will put my law in their
inward parts, and write it in their hearts, and will be their
God, and they shall be my people.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Here we have clear intimation of a new law superseding
<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>
the old, the spiritual nature of the new being contrasted with
the ceremonial of the old, by its being written in the heart;
while the stress laid by all upon its everlasting duration, implies
that the one preceding it was only meant to be temporary.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 5.       <lb/>
       :   </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 5. :      
          </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the Governors of Judah shall say in their hearts, the
inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be my strength in the Lord of
hosts their God.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>This text,</q> says Dr. Blayney, <q>has been supposed corrupt,
and many attempts made to amend it. But without
any alteration, it well expresses the sentiments of the men of
Judah, concerning the interest they had in the safety of Jerusalem
and its inhabitants, on which their own safety and security
depended in a great degree,</q> &amp;c. I fully agree with
Dr. Blayney in the literal meaning of the words, which involves
no difficulty; but in looking beyond the literal, to the symbolical
and spiritual sense, considerable difficulty appears. A
different solution from that I have offered at first occurred to
me, which is this, that as <emph>Judah</emph> means the earliest converts to
Christianity, these being evidently contrasted with <emph>the inhabitants
of Jerusalem</emph>, who were subsequently saved, the latter
might mean the yet unconverted Jews. Upon this view, the
anxiety of Christians for the conversion of the Jews, would
appear to be the subject intimated in the verse before us; and
as this idea may occur to others as it did to myself, I think it
<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>
right to state my reasons for relinquishing it. One objection
to this view is, that in verse 10, the <emph>unconverted Jews</emph>, if they
be the inhabitants of Jerusalem, would here mourn the crucified
Saviour, which would be a complete solecism. Another
objection is, that the abolition of idolatry in the next chapter,
instead of being represented as opening the way for the admission
of the Pagans to Christianity, which it certainly did, would
then be represented as opening the way to the conversion of
the Jews, which it certainly did not, but rather had a contrary
effect, as history declares. And, lastly, upon this view, the
corruption of Christianity, leading to the loss of the spiritual
Jerusalem, mentioned at the beginning of chap. xiv., instead
of being ascribed to the Gentile church, would thus appear to
be the work of the Jews, either of those more recently converted
to Christianity, or of those still unconverted, both of which
would be alike unreasonable. Such are the reasons which led
me to reject that view, and adopt the one proposed in the text.
With respect to the house of David, as signifying the Jewish
converts who embraced Christianity subsequent to the Apostolic
age, those objections do not apply.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 10. :    </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 10. :    </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And they shall look upon me whom they have pierced.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Blayney considers the  (or ), as simply a preposition, not a
compound of  with the affix pronoun , the antecedent to
 (or ), being understood, and renders the passage thus, <hi rend='italic'>They
shall look towards him whom they pierced.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The Jew argues from the change of person, that our version
<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>
cannot be right, and he renders it, <hi rend='italic'>They shall look to me concerning
him whom they pierced.</hi>
</p>

<p>
In whatever way the passage be rendered, no doubt can
remain in the mind of the Christian that Christ, who was
pierced, is the person here alluded to; and this is the only
point material to the present exposition. That the Jew should
admit this, is not to be expected.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Rabbi's Exposition,
And The
Author's Remarks.
Chapter XII.</head>

<p>
In the remaining chapters, I shall merely
point out those parts in which the construction
of the original is, or may be, different
from that of the English version, as
there seems no occasion to notice those passages
where they both agree.
</p>

<p>
Verse 2. <hi rend='italic'>Behold I will make Jerusalem a cup
of confusion unto all the people round about, and
also upon Judah, who will be in the siege against
Jerusalem.</hi>
</p>

<p>
By this it appears that Judah, namely,
those who will be without the city, will likewise
be greatly confused at their being compelled
by the other nations to take part in the
siege, and fight against their brethren.
</p>

<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>

<p>
Verse 10. <hi rend='italic'>And I will pour upon the house of
David, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the
spirit of grace and of supplications; and they shall
look unto me <hi rend='smallcaps'>(concerning)</hi> whom they have pierced,
and they shall mourn for him, &amp;c.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The change of person clearly proves, that
it is not he who was pierced, to whom they
will look; but it must be considered as if it
were     (or    ),
or      (or     )
particles are well known to be frequently
omitted or exchanged. This may either allude
to those who had been formerly slain for
their bold admonitions and warnings; or to
those who will hereafter be slain in battle.
</p>

<p>
They who apply this to the Christian
Messiah, have another difficulty to solve,
besides the one above mentioned, and that is,
to explain how a death is to be lamented,
which, as they believe, was indispensable to
the salvation of so many myriads of souls.
And further, it may be asked, if it was the
especial will of God that this should be so accomplished,
how could the perpetrators of his
death avoid it? And, lastly, what cause had
the house of David, comprising the Messiah
himself, to supplicate for mercy on account of
<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>
his death, in which they, being his own family,
had surely no share?
</p>

<p>
Ver. 8.    (or   )
cannot mean, <hi rend='italic'>and
the house of David shall be as God</hi>, but only as
a powerful being, <hi rend='italic'>as the Angel of the Lord before
them</hi>. The witch of Endor, who saw
 (or ) ascending out of the earth, surely did
not mean to say that it was God. And in
many other passages we find  (or ) applied
to mortals as well as to God.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
In answer to the difficulties proposed by the
Jew, the Christian may say, that he does not
mourn the death of Christ, but the sins that
required such a sacrifice; and as to the free
agency of those who crucified him, he will
say, that God's seeing fit sometimes to employ
the wicked in accomplishing his purposes,
does not imply that he first makes
them wicked for the purpose. When was
there ever a time, that none could be found in
Israel who were ready to slay the prophets?
And as to the difficulty in the text of verse
10, it is one of the Jews' own creating, as the
<pb n='156'/><anchor id='Pg156'/>
Christian finds none in receiving it as it
stands without even the proposed alteration,
an alteration admitted, but not proposed by
him. The only remaining objection, which
regards the house of David, has been anticipated
and answered in the interpretation of
verse 7.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='157'/><anchor id='Pg157'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Zechariah
On The
Messiah's Kingdom.
Interpretation: Chapter XIII.</head>

<p>
The progress of the Messiah's kingdom
being regarded as that of Christianity, the
next important step after the abolition of
Judaism, was that of Paganism, which is
evidently the subject of the chapter now
before us; but along with this is coupled
in the prophetic view another event, no less
important, which arose out of, and accompanied
the nominal conversion of the Gentile
nations. This was the corruption of Christianity
by the Pagan converts. For instead
of relinquishing their former prejudices and
<pb n='158'/><anchor id='Pg158'/>
superstitions, they retained, and brought
most of them into the bosom of the church;
and thereby in a short time totally changed
the character of the religion which they professed
to embrace.
</p>

<p>
It is true that this is a point of church
history not always very distinctly stated by
ecclesiastical historians; who seem more inclined
to represent the conversion of Constantine,
and the events of the fourth century,
as every way favourable to the Christian
cause. But the truth is, that precisely in
proportion to the church's advancement in
worldly prosperity and power, were its spiritual
decline and degradation; in so much that
the best historians admit, that from this
period are its degeneracy and corruptions
most indubitably to be dated. So different
is the light under which the same event appears,
according as it is viewed with regard
to its spiritual or its political import. Which
of the two best accords with the spirit of this
prophecy, the reader will be at no loss to decide,
when he sees that no prosperity is here
spoken of, but on the contrary, that the cutting
off two-thirds of the inhabitants of the
<pb n='159'/><anchor id='Pg159'/>
land, or their spiritual death, is the event
which is coupled in the prophecy with the
admission of the Pagans into the church of
Christ. And such was truly the result that
followed to the many; namely, the loss of the
true spirit of Christianity.
</p>

<p>
But if the abolition of Paganism be the
subject of this chapter, it may be asked, how
comes the purification of Israel to be announced
in the opening of it? The answer
is plain. Adopted Israel may be here understood.
To lineal Israel indeed was the prophecy
given; and with Israel, idolatry was,
and ever had been, the besetting sin; most
nearly therefore were the Jews also concerned
in its abolition.
</p>

<p>
Viewed, however, in the more enlarged
sense, idolatry comprises the indulgence of
every evil propensity; for Paganism, by appointing
a presiding Deity over each, had
sanctioned the unrestrained gratification of
every passion, in making it an act of devotion.
Christianity, on the contrary, enjoins the restraint
and control of our passions, and thus
becomes the natural antidote to the poison of
Heathenism: or the fountain of purification
<pb n='160'/><anchor id='Pg160'/>
from the sin and pollution of idolatry, as the
opening of this chapter declares.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>In that day there shall be a fountain opened to
the house of David, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem
for sin and for uncleanness.</hi>
</p>

<p>
That day, as formerly explained, is to
every one the day of his conversion to Christianity.
The house of David, and the inhabitants
of Jerusalem, here, as in the last
chapter, symbolically represent the later
converts to Christianity; as the house of Judah,
which was first saved, signify the earlier
Christians. The nature of the sin and pollution
to be thus washed away, is next declared
to be idolatry, and its abolition is
foretold.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the
Lord of hosts, that I will cut off the names of the
idols out of the land, and they shall be no more remembered;
and also I will cause the prophets,
and the unclean spirit to pass out of the land.</hi>
</p>

<p>
It may be worthy of remark, that <hi rend='italic'>the names</hi>
only <hi rend='italic'>of the idols</hi>, and not the spirit of idolatry,
is here declared to be cut off; and <hi rend='italic'>from the
land</hi>, which in prophetic language, commonly
means the land of Israel, here, adopted
<pb n='161'/><anchor id='Pg161'/>
Israel, or Christendom. Now, this nominal
abolition took place in the fourth century,
from which time both Jews and Gentiles have
been prohibited from the open worship of
idols. But we have now reached the nineteenth
century without seeing the spirit of
idolatry really extinct; if then the total abolition,
which is yet to come, be here intimated,
it must be symbolically foreshewn by the
nominal abolition which then took place.
<hi rend='italic'>That day</hi>, in regard to the inward and spiritual
purification, is to be taken as the day of his
regeneration to each individual, not as the
same day to all collectively; but regarding
the outward and ostensible abolition, this occurred
when the pains and penalties of the
Theodosian code prohibited the open practice
of Pagan rites. The prophetic view may,
however, include both.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And it shall come to pass in that day, when any
shall get prophesy, that his father and his mother
that begat him shall say, Thou shalt not live, for
thou speakest lies in the name of the Lord: and
his father and his mother that begat him, shall
thrust him through when he prophesieth.</hi>
</p>

<p>
To prophesy, or foretel future events, was
<pb n='162'/><anchor id='Pg162'/>
the main purport of Pagan rites; no undertaking
of any moment being entered upon
until the priests and oracles had been previously
consulted. This, in a superstitious
age, formed a lucrative profession for the
soothsayers and diviners, and was successfully
practised, till the darkness of Heathenism
was dispelled by the light of Christianity,
as foretold in the next verse.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And it shall come to pass in that day, that the
prophets shall be ashamed, every one of his vision
when he prophesieth; neither shall they wear a
rough garment to deceive.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The Pagan, as well as the Jewish prophets,
appear to have worn a distinct dress; but
after Paganism was abolished, those who
practised its rites in secret, of course denied
and sought to conceal it.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>But he shall say, I am no prophet but a labourer;
for a husbandman bought me from my
youth.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Slaves and bondmen frequently received a
mark in their hands, to shew the master to
whom they belonged; and persons attached
to the Heathen temples were sometimes
marked in a similar manner; the worshippers
<pb n='163'/><anchor id='Pg163'/>
of Bacchus, for instance, were distinguished
by the mark of an ivy leaf. (See
Lowth in loco.) This explains the following
verse.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And one shall say unto him, What are these
marks in thine hands? Then shall he answer,
Those with which I was marked in the house of
my friends.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Thus seeking to avoid the suspicion attached
to the marks of Paganism, under the
pretext of their being the indication of bondage
or servitude. But this evasion denotes
that the abolition of Paganism was ostensible
only, as it was still practised in secret. In
reality the advancement of Christianity to the
imperial throne, instead of promoting the
sincere conversion of the Pagans, only served
to complete what had already begun, namely,
the corruption of the Christians; whose character
and conduct soon totally changed, after
the road to the acquisition of wealth and
power was opened to them. In the contests
for the attainment of these, which soon arose,
(witness the Donatist faction,) the majority
of Christians in a short time lost sight of the
spirit of their religion; while the rancour and
<pb n='164'/><anchor id='Pg164'/>
cruelty with which different sects persecuted
each other, sprang from the same source, or
their rivalship in the struggle for worldly
power, as Mosheim declares. Such was the
spiritual sword which undermined Christianity,
and destroyed the life which is in Christ; as
next foretold.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, and
against the man that is next unto me, saith the
Lord of hosts. Smite the shepherd and the sheep
shall be scattered; and I will turn mine hand
against the little ones.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The sword is the symbol of strife and discord,
warring against and destroying spiritual
life, or the life in Christ; for he is the shepherd
who is smitten by the sword, the person
of Christ being here figuratively put for his
doctrine or religion; the corruption of which
is thus foreshewn by the dispersion and
slaughter of his flock. The little ones signify
the new converts, who are yet weak in their
faith and principles; and thence more liable
to be misled.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And it shall come to pass that in all the land,
saith the Lord, two parts shall be cut off, and die;
but the third part shall be left therein.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='165'/><anchor id='Pg165'/>

<p>
The history of the fourth century, here prophetically
foreshewn, amply testifies, that
only the smaller number of Christians, amidst
the general corruption, resisted the allurements
of avarice and ambition, and retained
their purity; these having imbibed the true
spirit of Christ's religion, as next declared.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And I will bring the third part through the
fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and
will try them as gold is tried: they shall call on my
name, and I will hear them: I will say, It is my
people; and they shall say, The Lord is my God.</hi>
</p>

<p>
It seems scarcely possible to give a more
unequivocal intimation of the spiritual import
of the whole, as not alluding to political
events, but as regarding the progress of true
religion, than is contained in those expressions
of the last verse, which declare, that the
supplications of the smaller number will be
offered up in a manner acceptable to God,
who will hear and answer them. The particular
period alluded to, is distinctly marked
by the nominal abolition of idolatry, and the
general corruption of Christianity. The only
difficulty, however, if there be any, regards
the chronological order of the events; as the
<pb n='166'/><anchor id='Pg166'/>
prophecy seems to foretel the entire abolition
of Paganism, which has certainly not yet
taken place; but this difficulty will be in a
great measure removed, by supposing the
prophetic view to look forward from the partial
to the total, from the nominal to the real
extinction of idolatry.
</p>

<p>
With respect to the division of the flock
into two parts, it must not be supposed that
any distinction of sects is here alluded to, for
no one could, more than another, claim the
character of purity and holiness. True
Christianity must be sought for in the heart,
and not in the outward form of worship, or
profession of faith.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='167'/><anchor id='Pg167'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Notes To Chapter XIII.</head>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 5. :   </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 5. :   </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>For a man taught me to keep cattle from my youth.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Parkhurst, in his Lexicon, remarks upon this passage, as
being <emph>strangely</emph> translated in our version; while Dr. Blayney
agrees with him in the translation. <hi rend='italic'>For a
man bought me, <hi rend='smallcaps'>(or
obtained possession of me,)</hi> from my youth.</hi> The Jew, while
he acquiesces in the sense of  (or )
signifying <hi rend='italic'>to appropriate</hi>,
contends that  (or ) does not mean merely
<hi rend='italic'>a man</hi>, but a <hi rend='italic'>husbandman</hi>,
or labourer, and renders it, <hi rend='italic'>For a husbandman I was
appropriated from my youth.</hi> But neither the sense nor the
grammatical construction thus appearing clear to my apprehension,
as the verb is not in the first, but the third person
with the suffix  <hi rend='italic'>me</hi>, after it; I propose to reconcile both by
rendering the passage thus: <hi rend='italic'>For a husbandman bought or appropriated
me from my youth.</hi> But in fact the difference is
immaterial, as the sense, in whatever way expressed, is, <hi rend='italic'>For I
was a farmer's servant, and a bondsman from my youth.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='168'/><anchor id='Pg168'/>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 6. :      </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 6. :      </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>What are these wounds in thine hands? &amp;c.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Both Lowth and Blayney agree in regarding these words as
an allusion to the custom of the idolatrous priests and prophets,
of marking themselves in the hands. Their being challenged
as the marks of Paganism, is a sufficient proof of their being
so, and I have rendered it accordingly, <hi rend='italic'>marks</hi> instead of
<hi rend='italic'>wounds</hi>. For if, as Blayney states, they were made by cutting
and slashing themselves, still the marks, and not the wounds,
would remain when healed.
</p>

<pgIf output='pdf'>
  <then>
    <p>Verse 7. :      </p>
  </then>
  <else>
    <p>Verse 7. :      </p>
  </else>
</pgIf>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, and against the
man that is my fellow, &amp;c.</hi>
</p>

<p>
In supposing these words to have had no direct reference to
the death of Christ in their original intention, notwithstanding
their appearing from St. John's Gospel to have been used by
him, in forewarning his disciples of what was about to befal
him, I offer no new opinion, for Dr. Blayney declares himself
fully persuaded that they had not; and what gives weight to
this opinion is, that it must have been founded on other
grounds than those which have led me to that conclusion. For
as Dr. Blayney had not embraced the spiritual view in expounding
the prophecy, he could not be led to this inference
by the same train of reasoning as myself. The words,
  (or  ) he renders, <q>The man that is next to me,</q>
which is certainly much nearer to the sense of the original than,
<hi rend='italic'>The man that is my fellow.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='169'/><anchor id='Pg169'/>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Two parts shall be cut of, and die.</hi>
</p>

<p>
An awful annunciation! foretelling the spiritual death of
two-thirds of the nominal Christian world. The corresponding
passages in the Apocalypse predict the same event, and one of
them in still stronger terms, for it is said, that <q><hi rend='italic'>Every living
soul in the sea died.</hi></q> Literally, this passage cannot be taken,
for literally there are no <hi rend='italic'>living souls</hi> in the sea. The sea means
the Gentile nations, or Europe. <hi rend='italic'>The life</hi> is life in Christ. The
loss of that life, or spiritual death is the loss of true Christianity:
here extending over the whole sea, or comprising all
the Gentile converts; and the period of this death is yet
scarcely elapsed, beginning with the dark ages, and continuing
to the millenium. What! is Europe then still, or has it so
lately been in a state of spiritual death or perdition? Such is
the language of prophecy, and its meaning cannot be explained
away or evaded. <q><hi rend='italic'>Every living soul in the sea
dies.</hi></q> The life in Christ is extinct. True Christianity no
longer remains. Will <emph>none</emph> then be <emph>saved</emph>? This the prophecy
no where says. The Gospel teaches that many may be saved
who never heard of Christ. Are all Mahommedans, and they
execrate the name of Christian, doomed to perish? No Christian
will surely maintain this, and still less that all misguided
Christians are doomed to perdition. But still the life in Christ
is lost. True Christianity no longer prevails. If then, without
it, men may be saved, where, it may be asked, is the use of it?
I answer, in every way, and every where it is useful. Did true
Christianity prevail, the myriads might be saved; the few only
would perish. Without it the few only can be saved, the many
are left to perish. By Christianity, all are taught to live for
<pb n='170'/><anchor id='Pg170'/>
the next world; without it, the many will live for this; few
are those that will think of another. Christianity not only
diffuses peace and happiness on earth, but fits every man for
enjoying eternal happiness hereafter. Such is the saving
virtue of Christ's religion, in affording to all the <emph>means</emph> of attaining
to eternal life and eternal happiness. But to return to
the age in which we live, or from which we are just emerging.
This period is peculiarly the age of infidelity&mdash;all Europe bears
testimony to the fact. But are they who profess belief, really
Christians? Look to conduct, and not profession for the proof.
Is this world, or the next, the object of pursuit? If conscience
whisper, that we who believe, lack the true spirit; how can we
expect it in those who disbelieve? Where then in true Christianity?
</p>

<p>
As this chapter, according to the Rabbi's view, remains unfulfilled,
so he offers no particular exposition of it, but limits
his remarks to a few emendations of the received translation.
Of these the only one any way material to the present discussion
is that on verse 5, which has been already stated in the
note on that verse.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='171'/><anchor id='Pg171'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Zechariah
On The
Messiah's Kingdom.
Interpretation: Chapter XIV.</head>

<p>
The corruption of Christianity, as foretold in
the last chapter, is allowed to have been the
means that prepared the way for those events
which are announced at the opening of the
present one. The ambition of the clergy, and
the state of ignorance in which they purposely
kept their flocks, had completely succeeded,
before the end of the sixth century,
in subjugating the minds of the people, and
in establishing the supremacy of the priesthood
in the west of Christendom, while the
last of these causes served to facilitate in the
<pb n='172'/><anchor id='Pg172'/>
east the success of the Mahomedan imposture,
which, as well as Papacy, was an offspring of
the spurious form of religion then prevailing
under the name of Christianity.
</p>

<p>
These two usurpations under the mask of
religion, divided, at the beginning of the
seventh century, what had once been the
Christian world, between them; one occupying
the western half of it, and the other the
eastern, according to our mode of expression;
but as regards Palestine, where the Prophet
wrote, this division is more accurately represented,
as expressed in the Prophecy, by
northern and southern; the northern half engrossed
by the Greek and Latin churches,
which being essentially of the same nature,
are here taken as one; while Mahomedism
usurped the place of Christianity in the
countries lying for the most part south of
Palestine, as Arabia, Egypt, India, Persia,
and others. (See note on this.)
</p>

<p>
Such are the occurrences foreshewn in the
opening of the present chapter; which <emph>now</emph>
does, if it did not previously, declare the
capture and pillage of the holy city, or the
loss of the spiritual Jerusalem, true religion;
<pb n='173'/><anchor id='Pg173'/>
this being followed by a portent awfully expressive
of the events which succeeded this
loss, namely, the cleaving asunder of Mount
Olivet; (a symbol for nominal Christianity,
Mount Zion signifying true Christianity,
Mount Sinai Judaism;) one part of which
moves northward, and the other southward,
leaving a deep valley between them for the
escape of those who are not involved in this
spiritual captivity or destruction.
</p>

<p>
After this follows the intimation of a period
of spiritual obscurity, which is declared to be
neither day nor night, neither clear day-light,
nor utter darkness; but on the evening of that
day, light is said to dawn again, and living
waters once more to flow out of Jerusalem.
At length this is to be succeeded by the
restoration of Israel, and the universal establishment
of true religion in the new Jerusalem.
</p>

<p>
While the loss of true religion is clearly
foreshewn in the capture of the spiritual Jerusalem,
with which this chapter commences;
and while the rise of Papacy and Mahomedism
is foretold in the cleaving of Mount
Olivet; the Christian will readily perceive, in
<pb n='174'/><anchor id='Pg174'/>
the day of obscurity that follows, the dark
ages shadowed forth; and in the dawn of
light that breaks forth at the evening time, he
will see intimation of the restoration of true
religion at the reformation, when living waters
again begin to flow out of Jerusalem.
</p>

<p>
The conclusion of this chapter, and of the
Prophecy, declares the final and complete
establishment of the Messiah's kingdom; that
happy period for which we are taught to pray
in the words, <q><hi rend='italic'>Thy kingdom come.</hi></q> Concerning
the nature of this kingdom, the Jew
not only differs from the Christian, but Christians
also differ from one another. Before I
attempt to decide so difficult a question, I
shall state the prevailing opinions, and what
the prophets have said on the subject.
</p>

<p>
The Jews expect, at the coming of their
Messiah, the establishment of their political,
as well as their spiritual supremacy over all
the earth. The Christians reject all idea of a
political kingdom, but differ in their views of
it as a spiritual one. Some understand it to
signify the universal establishment of true
Christianity on earth, with the full enjoyment
of all the blessings which it is calculated to
<pb n='175'/><anchor id='Pg175'/>
afford; others at this second advent, look for
the personal appearance of Christ on earth, to
reign with the saints, who will be raised from
the dead, to receive the reward of virtue
in his kingdom; while many regard his
kingdom as signifying a future state of happiness,
having no connexion whatever with
the earth we now inhabit, but to be enjoyed
in an eternal abode, of which they have an
indefinite idea as existing somewhere above
the firmament.
</p>

<p>
This last, which is perhaps the most popular
notion, seems least consonant to Scripture
and prophecy; which distinctly speak of
a kingdom <emph>on earth</emph>, as it is understood by the
Jews; though not necessarily, as they suppose,
a political one. As this is the chief
point on which I am at issue with my opponent,
I shall presently state the manner in
which this city, the New Jerusalem, is spoken
of by Isaiah and St. John. But previously I
think it right to notice a fallacy in what I
take to be the ground on which the popular
notion of this kingdom rests; namely, because
St. John in the Revelations gives intimation
of a resurrection preceding, or accompanying
<pb n='176'/><anchor id='Pg176'/>
its establishment. Now, we have,
as I conceive, no just ground for assuming, in
a vision, every other part of which is figurative,
that this part alone is to be understood
literally. Why, I should ask, may not this
resurrection, like the rest, be also symbolical,
or signify regeneration to newness of life?
which our Saviour expressed by being <emph>born
again</emph>; that is, a total change in our nature
and habits, such as was produced in his apostles
and disciples by the gift of the Holy
Spirit. But even admitting the literal resurrection
to be here intimated, (and no Christian
can doubt the reality of a resurrection,) yet
this would not be at all incompatible with a
future existence on earth, a light in which it
is viewed by many: we shall therefore inquire
what the Prophets have said that may throw
light on the nature of this kingdom on earth.
</p>

<p>
Both Isaiah and St. John, in speaking of
the New Jerusalem, use the two-fold metaphor
of a City and a Woman. In Isaiah liv.
11, et seq. this city is represented as having
foundations of sapphire, windows of agate, and
gates of carbuncle; and St. John, Rev. xxi.
16, describes it as built entirely of precious
<pb n='177'/><anchor id='Pg177'/>
stones, having twelve gates, each of one
solid pearl, and its streets paved with gold;
being, moreover, equal in all its dimensions,
that is, as broad as it is long, and as high as
it is wide, to wit, twelve thousand furlongs, or
fifteen hundred miles. This is surely very unlike
a literal city; but this City shortly becomes
a Woman, in St. John, and is styled
<q>The Lamb's Bride;</q> while Isaiah, using
the same change of metaphor, says, <q>For thy
Maker is thy husband.</q>
</p>

<p>
If we now look to the context in Isaiah, for
the purport of this figurative language, we
shall find that he says, chapter liv. 14, <q>In
righteousness shalt thou be established;</q> and
again, chapter lx. 19, <q>But thou shalt call
thy walls salvation, and thy gates praise;</q>
and from chap. lxi. it appears throughout, that
this description is intended to portray <hi rend='italic'>the
perfection of righteousness, the beauty of holiness</hi>,
and the <hi rend='italic'>riches of grace</hi>; these being, as declared,
the ornaments destined to adorn the
Bride. It is with <hi rend='italic'>a robe of righteousness</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>a
garment of salvation</hi>, that <hi rend='italic'>she will adorn herself</hi>,
as Isaiah expresses it, chap. lxi. 10.; while
St. John abounds in similar expressions; thus
<pb n='178'/><anchor id='Pg178'/>
in Rev. xix. 9, speaking of the Bride's apparel,
he says, <q>For the fine linen is the
righteousness of the saints;</q> and of the City,
which nothing impure is permitted to enter,
he says, chap. xxi. 23-27, <q>For the glory of
God did lighten it, and the Lamb was the
light thereof.</q> Thus both, under this highly
figurative description, appear to signify no
literal city, or political state, but one which is
altogether spiritual; that is, the utmost possible
degree of purity and holiness, which will
constitute this <hi rend='italic'>heaven upon earth</hi>; the New Jerusalem.
</p>

<p>
This chapter opens with the denunciation of
divine wrath about to fall upon mankind on
account of the corrupt state of religion. The
expression used to foretel this, belongs more
peculiarly to the day of judgment, called the
<hi rend='italic'>day of the Lord</hi>; but is often employed in prophetically
foreshewing particular judgments
on the world, as here:
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Behold the day of the Lord cometh, and thy
spoil shall be divided in the midst of thee.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>For I will gather all nations against Jerusalem
to battle, and the city shall be taken, and the
houses rifled, and the women ravished, and half of
<pb n='179'/><anchor id='Pg179'/>
the city shall go forth into captivity, and the residue
of the people shall not be cut off from the city.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The loss of the holy city, and the spiritual
captivity of half its inhabitants, which is the
bondage of sin, is the particular calamity here
foretold; and this is followed by the punishment
of those who were the authors of this
evil, the enemies of true religion, who war
against Jerusalem.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Then shall the Lord go forth, and fight against
those nations, as when he fought in the day of
battle.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The nations must signify here, as elsewhere,
the Gentiles, or Pagans, whose spiritual hostility
against true religion was shewn, as
before stated, by their corrupting and paganising
Christianity; while the judgment denounced
against them consists in God's permitting
the rise of the two great Antichristian
usurpations, Papacy and Mahomedism.
One, the man of sin, spoken of by St.
Paul, (1 Tim. iv. 1, and 2 Thess. ii. 3,) a
spiritual tyranny, enslaving the minds of men;
and the other, the abomination of desolation,
mentioned by Daniel, chap. viii. verses 10-12,
and, as he expressly foretold, permitted <emph>by
<pb n='180'/><anchor id='Pg180'/>
reason of transgression</emph>, or as a judgment on the
world, its avowed object being the propagation
of religion by the sword. The division of the
corrupt form of religion then prevailing, into
these two Antichristian apostacies, is thus
foreshewn.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And his feet shall stand in that day upon the
Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem upon
the East, and the Mount of Olives shall cleave in
the midst thereof toward the East, and toward the
West, and there shall be a great valley, and half
of the mountain shall move toward the North, and
half of it toward the South.</hi>
</p>

<p>
A mountain, meaning a place of eminence
or power, in spiritual language signifies religion;
<hi rend='italic'>Mount Sinai</hi>, from which the Mosaic law
was delivered, means Judaism, and is contrasted
in the Epistle to the Hebrews, chap.
xii. 18-22, with Christianity, which is there
called <hi rend='italic'>Mount Zion</hi>,
and <hi rend='italic'>the heavenly Jerusalem</hi>.
The Mount of Olives is neither of these, but
here symbolical of nominal Christianity, destined
to be split asunder; leaving, however, a
valley between the two parts for the escape of
those not involved in this spiritual destruction;
from which may be inferred, that true
<pb n='181'/><anchor id='Pg181'/>
Christianity would not become utterly extinct.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And ye shall flee to the valley of the mountains,
for the valley of the mountains shall reach unto
Azal: yea, ye shall flee like as ye fled in the days
of Uzziah, king of Judah, and the Lord my God
shall come, and all the saints with thee.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The true Christian is thus admonished to
fly, or avoid the prevailing apostacies; while
divine favour and protection are promised to
those who shun the general corruption.
From the establishment of these two Antichristian
dominations, a long day of spiritual
darkness is declared to follow; which was accomplished
in the reign of ignorance and superstition,
during the period expressively denominated
<hi rend='italic'>the dark ages</hi>. With God a thousand
years are but as a day.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And it shall come to pass in that day, that the
light shall not be clear nor dark;</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>But it shall be one day, which shall be known to
the Lord, not day nor night, but it shall come to
pass, that at evening time it shall be light.</hi>
</p>

<p>
In the return of light at the evening time
of that long day of obscurity, we see intimation
of the revival of true religion at the reformation;
<pb n='182'/><anchor id='Pg182'/>
which is still more clearly expressed
as follows.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And it shall be in that day that living waters
shall go out from Jerusalem, half of them toward
the former sea, and half of them toward the hinder
sea; in summer and in winter it shall be.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The former and the hinder sea, or as Dr.
Blayney proposes to render it, the Eastern and
the Western Sea, may literally signify the
Dead Sea and the Mediterranean; but figuratively
the Eastern and Western Gentiles, who
will receive the benefit of the spiritual waters.
The expression, in summer and in winter it
shall be, signifies literally, that they shall
neither be dried up by the summer's heat,
nor congealed by the cold of winter; but figuratively
must mean, that the purity of religion
shall not again be corrupted by the heat
of fanaticism on the one hand, nor frozen by
the cold of infidelity on the other. The universal
prevalence of true religion is then declared.
(See note.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>And the Lord shall be king over all the earth;
in that day shall there be one Lord, and his name
one.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The fulfilment of what now remains of the
<pb n='183'/><anchor id='Pg183'/>
prophecy appears to be still future, and consequently
it does not fall within the limits of
our plan to attempt the particular exposition
of each part of it; but sufficient, it is hoped,
will be found in what is already accomplished,
to convince the Christian reader of the
general purport of the whole; and to warrant
the statement made at the outset, that these
six chapters are not, as former commentators
have supposed them to be, a collection of unconnected
predictions relating to different
subjects, but one continued and uninterrupted
prophecy, presenting a view of the progress of
our religion, from its promulgation to its
final establishment in purity and perfection.
</p>

<p>
That the evidence of this will be sufficient
to convince the Jew, I am far from expecting,
being well aware of the many objections he
has still to urge against our exposition of prophecy,
after those which are here presented,
may have been removed. But it may possibly
have some weight with him, when he
finds upon examination, the same view of the
subject offered by Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel,
and others; which the Christian will find
more circumstantially displayed in the Revelation
<pb n='184'/><anchor id='Pg184'/>
of St. John. In fact, my exposition
of the Apocalypse, has furnished me with the
clue to guide me through all the prophecies,
that relate to the progress of the Messiah's
kingdom; for I find that each succeeding prophet
has helped to fill up the outline given by
his predecessors; while the picture is finally
completed by St. John, the last of them all.
But as a portrait is most easily recognised
when the likeness is complete; so the prophecy
last uttered, being most perfect, is
most easily interpreted, and naturally becomes
the key to all the others; that is, the last delivered
ought to be the first expounded, which
is the order I have pursued.
</p>

<p>
As I have made no change in the translation
of this chapter, few explanatory notes are
required; and the Rabbi's reply to this, as
to the one preceding, may be comprised in
this single objection; that no part has yet
been literally fulfilled, such being the only
fulfilment which he looks for or admits.
</p>

<p>
The impossibility of a more literal fulfilment
has been shewn in many places, but especially
at the beginning of chapter x.; and
until the Jew answers this, I must consider,
<pb n='185'/><anchor id='Pg185'/>
what to me appears to be the main pillar of
his argument, as fairly overthrown. And the
grand question, whether Christ be the Messiah,
resting upon this, namely, whether his
kingdom be a spiritual or a temporal one,
must be decided, as regards the present argument,
by shewing whether the prophecies relating
to it have regard to spiritual or temporal
affairs.
</p>

<p>
Many who object to the spiritual view,
misconceive what is meant by the spiritual
exposition; and consider it as setting aside
altogether the historical fulfilment of prophecy;
whereas the question is simply between
religion and politics, between church
and state; in short, whether the spiritual or
temporal history of the world should be looked
to, for the fulfilment of those prophecies which
foretel the progress of Christianity, or the
Messiah's kingdom. By directing their view
to temporal affairs, the ablest expositors have
hitherto discovered only an occasional allusion
to Christianity in a few verses of particular
chapters, and in others no allusion to it
whatever; whereas, by adhering closely to
the spiritual view, and understanding the prophecy
<pb n='186'/><anchor id='Pg186'/>
as foretelling the progress of true religion;
the battles and conflicts foretold, representing
the opposition which it has experienced,
and the corruptions which it has
undergone from the evil passions and worldly
propensities of man; we have been enabled
to shew the historical fulfilment of the whole;
not selecting, as others have done, particular
passages, but shewing that every chapter and
every verse relates to the same subject, and
this subject, the progress of Christianity.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='187'/><anchor id='Pg187'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Notes To Chapter XIV.</head>

<p>
Ver. 4. <hi rend='italic'>Half of the mountain shall move toward the north,
and half of it toward the south.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Although this passage is left in the text as it originally stood,
yet the writer acknowledges a manifest inadvertency in supposing
the division here spoken of into northern and southern
to have reference to the position of the prophet, any more
than to that of the reader; with neither of which it has any
connection. It has been objected by a judicious friend of the
author, that Mahommedism has prevailed, and still does prevail
in countries lying north of Judea, where the prophet wrote.
The objection is perfectly just, not was it unperceived by the
writer, though he did not at first see how to remove it, simple
as is the solution of the difficulty, and striking as then appears
the fulfilment of the prophecy.
</p>

<p>
The solution is&mdash;that this division of the nominal Christian
world here foretold, into two grand apostacies, Anti-christianism
and Mahommedism, which were destined to occupy a position
<pb n='188'/><anchor id='Pg188'/>
northward and southward, had no relation to the prophet, but
simply to each other&mdash;that is, they were to be north and south
of each other.&mdash;Now let a line be drawn, such as might be expected
from the fracture of a mountain by an earthquake, extending
from the west of Europe to the east of Asia, over a
surface of not less than 180 degrees of longitude, and no where
deviating more than 10 degrees of latitude, and we shall find
the Greek and Latin churches occupying the whole portion
lying to the north, while Mahommedism engrosses all to the
south. And we shall find those parts only of Europe cut off
which were pre-ordained to fall under the Moslem yoke, as
Spain, Sicily, Corsica, and Sardinia, Calabria, Greece, and
Turkey in Europe; while Russia forms the boundary line from
all the Mahommedan nations lying to the south of it. This
line will be comprised between 40 and 50 deg. of nor. lat.
Thus singularly have the words of the prophecy been accomplished.
And thus strikingly is the will of Heaven, in the pre-ordination
and disposal of human events, made manifest to the
mind of man.
</p>

<p>
Ver. 8. <hi rend='italic'>In summer and in winter it shall be.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Can such a state of the world, it may be asked, which shall
be exempt from fanaticism on the one hand, and from infidelity
on the other, be brought about without some miraculous
interposition to alter the nature and constitution of the human
mind? And does it comport with the usual ordinances of Providence,
who seems to effect his purposes by natural means, to
deviate in this instance, from the ordinary course of nature? It
certainly does not appear so; and it would, no doubt, be more
satisfactory, and be more likely to obtain belief, if natural
<pb n='189'/><anchor id='Pg189'/>
means could be pointed out, adequate to produce this marvellous
change in the state of the world, without calling for the
necessity of miraculous interposition. Let us see then&mdash;the
most fertile source of infidelity will be found in the mysteries
and dogmata invented by priestcraft, which reason revolts at
and rejects. Are, these then, essential to true Christianity?
is the question. If not&mdash;and Christ ever appealed to the
reason of his hearers, advancing nothing that reason could gainsay&mdash;then
true Christianity requires only to be taught, and Infidelity
will have no ground left to stand upon. With regard
to fanaticism, there can be no doubt that false ideas of religion
engender this extreme; ignorance, encouraging the hopes of a
sensual paradise on the one hand; and fear, inspiring the dread
of eternal torments on the other, as in the Mahommedan and
Romish churches, have been most fruitful in producing this
extravagance. With just ideas of religion and the Divine beneficence,
such feelings are incompatible. A religion of love,
and such is Christianity when justly appreciated, can never lead
to fanaticism. We may love God with all our heart, with all
our mind, with all our soul, and with all our strength, and it
can never disturb our reason, or lead to any but the happiest
and most rational frame of mind.
</p>

<p>
Thus, the dissemination of true Christianity, the just appreciation
of its precepts and their faithful practice, appears to furnish
a remedy adequate to the removal of both these evils, without
requiring the aid of any miraculous interposition to effect
this purpose.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='190'/><anchor id='Pg190'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Millenium.</head>

<p>
As the view of Christ's kingdom, taken in the
preceding exposition, is that which regards it
as not only that state or condition of man,
which is most calculated to prepare him for,
and enable him to attain eternal happiness
hereafter; but also as that which is adapted to
produce the highest possible degree of felicity
here on earth, it will be proper to consider a
few of the arguments that may be brought for
and against this view of the Millenium, and
to state the view itself more distinctly.
</p>

<p>
The happy state which the world may attain
to, under the universal prevalence of true
religion, it is more easy to imagine, than to
describe; for a volume would hardly suffice
<pb n='191'/><anchor id='Pg191'/>
to enumerate all the blessings it is calculated
to afford. The cessation of foreign war, with
all the miseries attending it; the end of all
tyranny and oppression at home; of injustice
and misrule, are the most distinctly announced,
and their benefit perhaps the most
obvious. But their influence on society is
limited in comparison with the wide diffusion
of happiness that would ensue from the improvement
in private life, and the amelioration
of individual character. Were the vices
prevalent in each class of society banished
from the world; ambition and ostentation from
the higher, inordinate love of gain from the
middle and commercial, idleness and improvidence
from the lower class, such a change
would ensue, that the golden age of the poets
would be revived. Fortunes would no longer
be squandered, and families be ruined by extravagance
and dissipation; gambling speculation,
extortion and chicanery would be unknown
in trade; poverty and dishonesty
would be banished from the working classes.
Thus, litigation and crime ceasing, the civil
and criminal code would become a dead letter,
and every man would enjoy in security the
<pb n='192'/><anchor id='Pg192'/>
fruits of his industry; while the peace and
harmony of families would be insured by the
increased prevalence of kindness and brotherly
love, forbearance and self-control, charity and
benevolence, with other domestic virtues.
</p>

<p>
Among the blessings promised in this state,
is increased length of life; nor is this at all
difficult to conceive or account for. The tormenting
passions of ambition and avarice subsiding;
the mind being no longer tortured
by the cravings they occasion, nor the spirit
broken by the disappointments that attend
them; the constitution being no longer worn
out by the toils and cares they give rise to,
the larger portion of diseases incidental to
man, (and more proceed from the mind than
the body) would be prevented.
</p>

<p>
But those arising from bodily causes, would
likewise for the most part vanish, from a
proper restraint on the indulgence of the
passions and appetites.
</p>

<p>
Nor is diminution of disease the only cause
that would lengthen life. The healing art
being more zealously studied, and more conscientiously
practised, with more regard for
the welfare of the patient, and less for the
<pb n='193'/><anchor id='Pg193'/>
emolument; it is not unreasonable to suppose
that great improvement would take place in
every branch of it. And thus another source
would be opened for producing increased
length of days.
</p>

<p>
But with the moral and physical blessings,
let not the spiritual pass unnoticed. Eternal
life is the reward promised to those who
strive to obtain it, and render themselves
worthy of it. Surely then the universal prevalence
of peace, charity and good-will
among mankind is more likely to produce a
fitness for this state, than the present order of
things. Thus our eternal and our temporal
interests would be alike promoted by it.
</p>

<p>
The prophetic language, supposed to foretel
this state being metaphorical its meaning
may be questioned; and it may be objected,
that reason and experience are alike adverse
to the supposition that the world will
ever be materially different from what it
has been. Would not this argument, if urged
two thousand years ago, have been then
deemed conclusive against the possibility of
events, having previously no parallel in the
history of man, which nevertheless did afterwards
<pb n='194'/><anchor id='Pg194'/>
take place. That any considerable
body of men should be found, who should
prove themselves above the allurements of the
world; despising wealth and honours; disregarding
every thing before held most estimable
by mankind; and braving ignominy,
tortures and death:&mdash;would not the argument,
that such things had never been, have been
deemed conclusive against the supposition
that they ever would be? And yet all this did
occur in the apostolic age. If the past then
afford any presage for the future, it is not
against, but in favour of the conclusion, that
what has been, may be again.
</p>

<p>
Perhaps it may be objected, that the purity
and heroic virtue of the apostolic age were
transient, and can never be permanent; they
were partial, but can never be general. This
mode of reasoning is perhaps less philosophical
than it may at first appear. What
has obtained amongst one race of men, may
obtain amongst others. What has continued
for one generation, may continue for more.
The life of man is no transient period, but
to each individual the longest period possible.
A whole race is not a partial, but as regards
<pb n='195'/><anchor id='Pg195'/>
them, a general prevalence. And if there be
any truth in history, the principles and practices
of the early Christians pervaded their
whole race, and lasted during their whole
lives.
</p>

<p>
True Christianity has however vanished, it
may be said; and what should revive it? The
evil passions of man have prevailed against it;
and why should they not again? I answer;
the same causes that produced it, may revive
it; and the permanency of those causes, may
render it permanent. Conviction was the
cause that produced it; that inward, heartfelt,
active conviction, which never leaves the mind
for a moment, and admits no shadow of doubt;
not that inert, listless, passive form of belief,
which assents, it knows not why; and
believes, it knows not what.
</p>

<p>
I have heard a distinguished churchman
affirm his persuasion, that the most prevalent
evil in the church is infidelity. I would fain
disbelieve it. It surely is not that bold and
open infidelity which denies revealed religion.
If it prevail at all, it must be that secret
wavering propensity to doubt, apt to arise in
minds not fully satisfied of the truth, and
<pb n='196'/><anchor id='Pg196'/>
which feel regret that its evidence is not more
conclusive. This may be, and is much to be
regretted. For such belief can never produce
effective influence on the life and conduct;
nor awaken that impassioned eloquence in the
preacher, which animated the first teachers of
Christianity, and carried conviction to the
hearts of their hearers. Whence arises this
state of mind? Are the proofs of Christianity
then inconclusive? Far otherwise. Though
its prophetic proofs are clothed in metaphor,
and require study to understand them; though
its history is by no means free from contradictions;
though time may have obscured
some passages, and interpolation thrown a
doubt upon others; yet is there left sufficient;
amply sufficient to satisfy the mind of any
who think the subject worthy of serious examination.
</p>

<p>
But here is the misfortune. Most men
think otherwise. The laity are too often content
to take their religion on trust; and the
clergy for the most part want leisure for
studies that demand so much time and attention;
while their following hitherto in a beaten
track, and paying undue deference to the
<pb n='197'/><anchor id='Pg197'/>
authority of the Masoretic punctuation, have
encumbered them with difficulties almost insurmountable.
Hence it is, that as far as
regards the prophetic evidence of our religion&mdash;the
elucidation of that miraculous testimony
to its truth, the force of which is ever
progressively increasing and which alone can
place us on an equal ground of belief with the
first Christians,&mdash;the world has remained
nearly stationary above a thousand years.
Of learning there has been no want; of talent
abundance; of reading no end; but beyond
verbal criticisms, the settling of doubtful
words and passages, for the improvement of
the text, little has been done. The general
scope, as well as the particular interpretation
of the Old Testament prophecies, the ultimate
evidence of Christianity, has received little
elucidation since the days of the Apostles.
</p>

<p>
Here is one fruitful source of conviction
yet unopened. When fully opened, from more
perfect conviction will flow more zeal in the
teaching, and more influence on the minds of
the hearers.
</p>

<p>
If it be doubted whether the most perfect
religious instruction that can be given, or the
<pb n='198'/><anchor id='Pg198'/>
fullest conviction of an endless futurity of
happiness or misery when impressed on the
mind, can suffice to control the passions and
propensities of man; let the effect of training
on the brute creation be considered. It will
not surely be contended, that man has less
power of controlling his propensities, or is less
capable of culture than they. If then we find
that creatures the most opposite in disposition,
and supposed to be natural enemies, may be
trained to live together peaceably and amicably;
what may not be expected from man,
having moreover the aid of reason to guide and
assist him?
</p>

<p>
Let adequate motives for controlling his
passions be furnished; let true Christian
principles be early inculcated; let religion be
more practical and less doctrinal; let precept
be enforced by example, and there is nothing
foretold in this new order of things that may
not be accomplished; nothing promised in it
that may not be reasonably expected.
</p>

<p>
FINIS.
</p>
</div>
</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
